A HISTORY OF THE McGEES,
A SCOTS-IRISH FAMILY

1548  -  1850
By William E. McGee




TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION	PAGE
1.  INTRODUCTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS	4
2.  WHO ARE THE MCGEES?	9
3.  JOHN(E) MAKGEE IN SCOTLAND	11
4.  FLIGHT TO IRELAND	22
5.  THE PLANTATION OF IRELAND	24
6.  THE WORLD IN 1610	31
7.  DAVID MACGHEE	33
8.  THE GREAT REBELLION OF 1641	36
9.  THE WILLIAMITE WARS	38
10.  THE PENAL LAWS	42
11.  THE CONVERT ROLLS	45
12.  THE CHILDREN OF DAVID MACGHEE AND CATHERINE BROWNE	47
13.  CAPTAIN GEORGE MACGHEE	47
14.  DESCENDANTS OF CAPTAIN GEORGE MACGHEE AND HELENA	49
15.  DESCENDANTS OF CAPTAIN THEOBALD MACGHEE AND BRIDGET CROSBY	52
16.  THEOBALD MACGHEE AND ELLEN MCCARTHY	53
17.  DAVID MACGHEE AND CATALINA BORGES OROPESA	54
18.  MARTHA MACGHEE	55
19.  CLAUDE AND ANDREW MACGHEE	56
20.  ELIZABETH MACGHEE AND ALEXANDER BROWNE	58
22.  MAJOR DAVID MACGHEE AND CATHERINE ELMORE	62
23.  DESCENDANTS OF JAMES MACGHEE	64
24.  GEORGE MACGHEE ESQ. AND REBECCAH HAMILTON	69
25.  THE WILL OF GEORGE MACGHEE	74
26.  PATRICK MACGHEE AND HIS SON JOHN	75
27.  CHURCH OF IRELAND CLERGY	77
28.  REVEREND GEORGE MACGHEE AND ANN HAMILTON	78
29.  REVEREND WILLIAM W. MCGHEE	81
30.  REVEREND JAMES MCGHEE AND MISS BLACKALL	82
31.  REVEREND ROBERT JAMES MCGHEE AND MARY ANDREWS WINSTANLEY     83
32.  CATHERINE MACGHEE AND BARTHOLOMEW HARROLD	84
33.  JAMES MACGHEE, THE CONNECTION TO NORTH AMERICA	85
34.  CONCLUSION	87

APPENDIX I  WILL OF DAVID MACGHEE	88
APPENDIX II  WILL OF GEORGE MACGHEE ESQ.	89
APPENDIX III  WILL OF THEOBALD MACGHEE	96
APPENDIX IV   SUGGESTIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH	98

ENDNOTES                                                                                                                         101	




I  INTRODUCTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS



This is my country, 
The land that begat me.
These windy spaces
Are surely my own.
And those who here toil
In the sweat of their faces
Are flesh of my flesh, 
And bone of my bone

I occasionally wonder why I do this.  Why have I devoted so much time, energy and money to this search for the history of the McGee family?  Why do I care about people so long gone?  There are really no answers that roll comfortably onto the page.  I cannot answer those questions any more than I can explain why bagpipes give me goosebumps or why an old tune about famine emigration can bring tears to my eyes.  The one explanation is no explanation at all, but rather a sentiment expressed in the poem, “Scotland”, by Sir Alexander Gray.  The stanza I include above is particularly meaningful to me. 

I feel a bond to my ancestors which goes far beyond curiosity.  I will not consign their lives to some category which does not include my own.  By their triumphs, their tragedies, their failures, their foolish errors, fears, successes, blind prejudices and delights they helped shape our world and us.  They made huge contributions to make us what we are, for good and ill, and it is a fundamental mistake to ignore their influence.  Having a history is part of being human and at least an attempt to learn from history is a part of wisdom.  We cannot understand our times unless we understand the forces and events which led to our circumstances nor can we make considered moral judgments about today’s situations without knowledge of the facts and situations which brought us to our present state

Our ancestors were caught up in the great events of their day.  They were involved in wars, religious turmoil and mass migrations but they were not heroic figures, just ordinary, fragile, imperfect people living the ordinary events of the day, which we now call history.  Their motivations were the same as ours, some noble and some base.  But in the end they were driven by the same needs and desires. This is their story, but it is our story too. They have something to say to us today and we would be wise to listen.  To forget these people is to turn our backs to them and to their accomplishments and failures, but in that process we turn our backs to the wisdom this modern world so sorely needs.  It is pointed out from time to time that I do all this in vain, that no one really cares anymore.  That may be demonstrably true, but I have decided that I have done this for myself and that there is no further reward pending.  That is enough. 

For years, when my employer unreasonably insisted I devote much of my waking time to the purposes of making a living, I limited my efforts to telephone calls and letters to elderly relatives asking them to tell me all they could about our ancestors.  Like many an amateur genealogist I started too late.  Many of those with whom I most needed to talk had already died.  I deeply regret that because some of the stories they might have told me would not only have made my search easier, but they would have been able to tell me the sorts of details about our relatives that fill in a picture and make the story more than just names, dates and locations.  In more recent years my efforts have been made much more productive and pleasurable by my cousins Jerry Don McGee, Ken McGee, Pat McGee, Tonya Brown, Alan Milliken and Fergus McGhee and my cousin-in-law Linda McKee. It would be inaccurate to suggest there is unanimity of opinion regarding every matter of fact.  In dealing with events of three or four centuries past that would be unbelievable.  However, all of the key discoveries and most of the small details are as a result of our collaboration and when I use the personal pronoun it is for reasons of my own convenience as the author.  I also wish to thank my daughter Casey and her wife Olga who have been delightful traveling companions on several trips to Scotland and Ireland and have contributed greatly to the story that follows.

Together or as individuals my cousins and children and I have made numerous trips to Ireland and Scotland.  In the process we think we have nearly exhausted the available written record.  In particular, the holdings of the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland (PRONI) and of the National Library and National Archives of Ireland have been most productive.  I also wish to give particular thanks to Dr. William Roulston, the Research Director of the Ulster Historical Foundation, whose friendship and expert and personal knowledge of County Tyrone have been most instrumental in our successes.  Alan Milliken has stepped in at crucial points to provide key information about Scottish records and to guide us through the process of understanding Old Scots, a key assist toward finding our way through ancient documents.  I live in a small town in Wisconsin.  Miles and time zones separate me from the large institutions which hold the documents and books necessary to write such a paper as this.  However, Kim Kiiskinen, the Reference and Technology Librarian at the River Falls Public Library, has chased down dusty, obscure books from all over the country and overcome nearly every handicap of time and distance.

One of the best things about this work has been the unexpected but most delightful one of finding new friends in Ireland.  In particular I wish to thank Hugh and Mary Doherty, whose hospitality and friendship have warmed my heart and Hamilton and Margaret Thompson who on at least two occasions have allowed strangers into their home.  These and many others we have met along the way have only reinforced the reputation of the Irish for their hospitality and I thank them sincerely.  

And finally I thank my wife, who has supported me in a multitude of ways, great and small, since I began this project decades ago.  She has edited documents, given me technical support, supported my many (expensive) trips to Ireland and Scotland, managed the household and been a constant comforting presence.  I could not have done this without her participation and assistance.

In writing this history I have attempted to write a story, not a list of names, dates and places.  I do not fault such lists and they are sometimes invaluable.  But my view is that lives can only be understood in the context of their times.  Thus I have attempted to flesh out the skeletons of names and dates with historical contexts. 
There is the danger that the historical references will clutter up the family story and make the whole less than the parts, neither a coherent history nor a detailed genealogy.  Countless volumes have been written by qualified historians about the histories of Scotland and Ireland and it is far beyond my ability to equal those works; indeed it was not my intent to do so.  Rather I have included only enough historical detail to make sense of lives lived centuries ago in conditions only poorly understood by modern readers.  I hope I enlighten rather than confound the reader.

The story which follows represents my best understanding of the facts as they are available today, centuries after the events.  Anyone familiar with Irish family history will know the difficulties facing a researcher.  However I will attempt to tell the story as accurately as I can and when I am forced to fill in blanks with deductions or speculations I will so indicate.  To the extent possible I have relied upon original documents but in many cases that did not prove possible and I have relied upon the work of others.  I hope that these efforts will stimulate research by others interested in the family and I welcome any information which will fill in blanks or correct errors.  In the final analysis any errors are those of my failure to understand and for correction of those errors I will thank any and all who can help. This paper is the culmination of a lifelong desire to know more about my ancestors and will serve as my contribution to the advance of knowledge about my family.  I know my prose does not soar.  It does not float like Ali’s butterfly nor does it sting like a bee, rather it plods.  I know I have made errors, even without knowing what they are.  But this is my gift, imperfect as it may be, to all who have helped gather and interpret the facts and refine the story, especially to my dear cousins and beloved children. 

Before I commence, I suggest this story will be easier to follow if the reader is able to make reference to a family tree.  If a reader would find this useful they may contact me at the e-mail address included later in the paper and I will send them an electronic version of the tree.

2.  WHO ARE THE MCGEES?
The use of surnames in Scotland and Ireland goes back as far as the 12th century but the practice of using surnames was first confined to the nobility and the gentry.  However, as time went on, written records, administrative procedures and legal proceedings became more common and it became necessary to be able to distinguish between common people.  A patronymic system eventually emerged based upon the given name of the founding family member.  McGee is such a name.  Literally, the name McGee is an Anglicization of the Gaelic name MacAodh.  In Gaelic Mac or Mc means “son of” and Aodh would be translated as Hugh.  So, together, the name means son of Aodh or son of Hugh.  Aodh when pronounced in Gaelic sounds roughly like Y or I or E, depending upon the dialect in which it is spoken. Eventually, however, the system became too cumbersome and inexact.  Under the patronymic system, a son of William with the given named James could be, for example, James MacWilliam.  James’s son Robert could be Robert MacJames.  Robert’s son David could be David MacRobert. Under such a system it would soon be impossible to track who was related to whom.  Issues of tax collection and inheritance were particularly complicated.  So at some point families with patronymic surnames chose a name of one of their male ancestors, perhaps one of some superior standing, as the foundation of their family name and all those who followed were sons of that person, at least in name.  So it is possible that all of us now with the surname McGee are in that sense “sons of Aodh”, whoever or wherever Aodh may have been.  Of course it is possible, even probable, that there were several or many Aodhs whose descendants chose their names.  We leave resolution of that problem to the wonders of DNA research.  

There are many spelling variations of the name which today is most commonly seen as Magee, McKee, McGhee or McGee.  Alternative spellings most commonly seen in the course of our research were Macghee, McGhie and McKie.  There were numerous less common variations and we even found Magius in documents written in Latin and Maguich in Spanish.  In the records we reviewed it was clear that spelling was variable and idiosyncratic well into the 18th century.  It was not uncommon to find names, both place-names and the given and surnames of people, spelled various ways in one document.  A fine example of this is the Hearth Money Rolls for 1664-1666 of Carnteel Parish in Co. Tyrone.  In the 1664 rolls, Direnabane Townland, lived James McGee.  In the 1666 rolls of Dirynaban Townland, lived James McKee1.  These two townlands and the two men named James are undoubtedly the same.  Another example is the will of George Macghee, 1741, written in his own hand, in which he refers to his wife variously as Rebecca, Rebeccah and Reabacca2.  Adding to this variability, the names appearing in any documents of the age written by second parties were subject to even further changes due to the vagaries of handwriting.  An excellent example is that the handwriting of the 17th century could and sometimes did make David Macghee appear to be David Marghoo or David Marghue or David Macghuer!  Under these circumstances it was necessary for us and it will be prudent for any who follow to be very flexible and open-minded with regard to the spelling of names in reviewing documents.  

One additional matter should be addressed here, the matter of the prefixes Mc, Mac, and O.  Whereas “Mac” meant son of and “O” meant grandson of, we have never found a mention of a name beginning with “O” in Scottish records, except as may have belonged to an errant Irishman.  In our experience, names beginning with “O” are always Irish.  On the other hand, names beginning with “Mc” or “Mac”, or sometimes “M’”, are to be found in both Irish and Scottish records and it is our conclusion that such names could be either Irish or Scottish. Considering the centuries-long cultural and physical contacts between the people of Ulster and Scotland it is not clear that attempts to identify any name of the region as either Scottish or Irish are meaningful.  To the extent possible I use the names of those mentioned in this paper as they were found.

3.  JOHN(E) MAKGEE IN SCOTLAND
The family I will discuss in the following paragraphs lived in Ireland beginning in the earliest days of the Plantation of Ulster in 1610.  However legends and more recent trends in genealogical research through DNA indicate origins in Ireland with several intervening centuries spent in Scotland.  The legends have it that Irish lords came to what is now Galloway, in southwestern Scotland, as early as the 12th century and settled just north of the modern town of Kirkcudbright in Balmaghie, Balmaghie meaning the home of the Maghies.1  A comprehensive history of the family in Scotland will have to wait for another generation of genealogists but it is our belief that the Makgee family of Dumfries were a junior branch of the family in Balmaghie.  Dumfries and Balmaghie are separated by about twenty-one miles.  For a current scholarly discussion of these very early McGees and related families I recommend to you a recent article by Alan Milliken in the October 2018, volume 92 issue of the Transactions of the Dumfriesshire and Galloway Natural History and Antiquarian Society titled Michael McGorth and the Clan Afren.  My discussion will begin in the mid-16th century with John Makgee.  It is noteworthy that this John Makgee was nearly as far separated in time from his ancestors who came from Ireland to Scotland as we are from him.  His knowledge of those ancestors was likely to have been at least as sketchy then as our knowledge is of him today. 

In Edinburgh on Friday, 8 February 1574 twenty-six year- old Johne Makgee, son of David Makgee, burgess of Dumfries was examined by Alexander, Abbott of Culros and William Douglas of Quhittinghame, members of the Lords of Council. The purpose of the examination was to determine Johne’s fitness to be a notary public.  At the conclusion of the examination he was declared to be a notary public, with a note being made there were at that time very few notaries around New Abbey.2  Thus begins this story and  the public career of a man with deeply held religious convictions which were to pit him against the religious and political tides of the time and ultimately lead him to flee Scotland for sanctuary in Ireland.

Let us consider this time in history.   When John Makgee was born about 1548, Henry VIII of England had been dead only a matter of months, his sickly son Edward VI sat on the English throne and his second daughter, Elizabeth, was not to be crowned Elizabeth I for nearly ten years.  Shakespeare, Galileo and Isaac Newton were not yet born, James V was King of Scotland, Mary Stuart, Henry VIII”s niece, was still in possession of her head and the defeat of the Spanish Armada was decades in the future.  However, one historical event which was destined to change John’s life and the lives of all who followed him, was to occur when he was still a child.  That event, the Reformation, came into full force in Scotland in 1560.  

The most obvious cause of the Reformation in Scotland was the desire to reform abuses in the church, not a new desire by any means.  The wealth of the church, the greed, immorality and ignorance of some clergy, the financial requirements of Rome and abuses of the indulgences system fueled discontent. However, there were other factors which led to the Reformation.  The practices of monasticism, the virtues of poverty, the veneration of saints, the magical qualities ascribed to relics and the monopoly on salvation - as asserted by the church - were more and more contrary to the views of the growing merchant and other middle classes.  Martin Luther declared that the sacraments of the church were not necessary to secure a relationship with God; rather there was a priesthood of all believers. A religion that consisted chiefly of a communion between man and God that had no need for the mediation of a priest was readily accepted in Scotland.  Although attempts by the church to counter the Reformation, including the Council of Trent in 1545, led to the elimination of many of the abuses pointed out by Luther, the resulting reforms were too late to meet the needs of the 16th –century Scottish church.  The Catholic church of 1560 was not the church of today and it was not prepared for the struggle it faced.

Henry VIII had broken with Rome just over a decade before John’s birth with the 1534 Act of Supremacy.  That break had little to do with religious doctrine but mostly to do with matters of Henry’s nature and his desire for a divorce from a wife who had failed to deliver a male heir. It is also possible that Henry was influenced by German princes engaged in their own struggles to seize control of their state churches away from the Pope. As for religious doctrine and practice Henry was a schismatic but showed no inclination to heresy.  In Scotland the pressures from England, the powerful and aggressive neighbor to the south, added fuel to the fires of resentment against the Scottish Catholic church. 

In May, 1559, John Knox , former Catholic Priest, visionary and revolutionary, returned to Scotland from exile in Geneva, Switzerland. So electrifying was his preaching that it was said of him that he was “able in one hour to put more life into us than five hundred trumpeters continually blustering in our ears”3  In a series of sermons he issued furious criticism of the practices of the church, thundering in particular against the “diabolical, rotten and stinking” ritual of the mass which he castigated as “more odious in God’s sight than murder.”4   Knox fanned the flames of resentment into an inferno which was to drive the Catholic church out of Scotland.  Within a brief time Protestants had won a civil war, outlawed the practice of Catholicism and ended Papal authority. It was a thorough and unambiguous revolution. Catholic Mary Stuart was beheaded February 8, 1587.  This was followed five days later by the coronation of her son James VI, the first Protestant monarch ever to sit on the throne of Scotland. This revolution permanently changed Scottish politics and society. The rules by which society worked were swept away.  Scotland had entered into a new, tumultuous world, a dangerous world, especially so for Roman Catholics such as John Makgee who were unwilling to cast aside the old religion. 

At this time in European history, religion and politics were so inextricably entwined that it is difficult for the 21st century reader to understand. For sure there were those who did not separate the religious from the political for opportunistic reasons.  But we should not forget that there were many devoutly religious figures to whom the worlds of religion and politics not only should not be but could not be divided. It was common at the time for monarchs to believe and claim that they ruled absolutely by divine right and that, as monarchs, they were the ultimate political actors.  They thought it impossible to separate God’s will from their own.  It was widely assumed that without a shared structure of religious belief no society could survive.  As Lord Burghley, chief minister to Elizabeth I put it, “That state could never be in safety, where there was toleration of two religions.”  To understand these attitudes we must understand the context in which the statesmen and religious figures of the age operated.  When Henry VIII threw off Papal authority and declared that the English church had no higher authority on this earth than the monarch, he not only made an enemy of the Pope and the Catholic Church but intensified the conflict between the English state and the great powers of Spain and France.  Both of these countries were ruled by Roman Catholic royal families who were, at times, opposed to Henry for reasons of power, influence, wealth and empire.  To make things worse, the Scots had fought bloody wars against the English for centuries and their allies, the French, had posted thousands of troops in support.  Against Henry’s express desires, and even after he intervened militarily, Mary Stuart had married the future King of France and had secretly promised him the throne of Scotland in the event she died before him.

For the English, Scotland and Ireland represented unbarred back doors, difficult to defend against potential Roman Catholic invaders.  Both religious and political aims coincided when it came to dealing with these worrisome neighbors.  The Reformation and establishment of a Protestant government in Scotland did not diminish the religious strains, as the Scottish Calvinists were as unwilling to conform to what they considered unreasonable demands of a Protestant monarch as they were to conform to the idolatry they saw in the Catholic mass. As for the Makgees and other Catholics in a newly Protestant Scotland, their difficulties were about to compound.  

Not only was the practice of Catholicism now illegal in Scotland, but now there were directions for the treatment of someone excommunicated as non-conforming to the new religion.  Non conformists were given three summonses to repent.  “After which sentence may no person (his wife and family only excepted) have any kind of conversation with him, be it in eating and drinking, buying and selling, yea, in saluting and talking with him, except that it be at the commandment or license of the Ministry for his conversion; that he by such means confounded, seeing himself abhorred of the faithful and godly, may have occasion to repent and so be saved.  The sentence of his Excommunication must be published universally throughout the Realm, lest that any man should pretend ignorance.”5  The religious leaders of the Protestant party in Scotland were unalterably committed to the destruction of “idolatry.”  They were opposed to any civil authority which countenanced, let alone imposed, Catholic belief and worship and there was to be no compromise; no trace of freedom of conscience was to be allowed. 

There is ample evidence of the presence of John Makgee and at least two David Makgees, all prominent in seventeenth century Dumfries. One of the Davids was John’s father, mentioned above, and the other was probably his grandfather.  We estimate that David, father of John Makgee, would have been born about 1528.  John’s mother was Isabella Philp, daughter of Stephan Philp.6

The earliest records we have seen originate from 1509 when David McGhie was a chaplain of St. Michael’s Roman Catholic Church in Dumfries.7  There are subsequent records of a David McGhie’s notary public work in 1539 8, 1550 9, 1576 10 and 1578.11  In 1564, David McGhie was Clerk of the Commissariat of Dumfries 12  These positions were often passed from father to son and John McGhie was to hold this position, beginning in 1584, when he succeeded Homer Maxwell.13  In 1568 and 1580 David McGhie purchased land in Dumfries.14,15  In the 1580 transaction he was referred to as a burgess.  In 1591 he was still a burgess and notary public.16  This lengthy record of over 80 years demonstrates that there were at least two men named David McGhie, one probably the father of the other, and the younger David probably father to John Makgee.

Apart from the records of his examination to become a notary public, the earliest records I have seen for this John Makgee are from March 1580 when he was both a witness to and a signatory to a feu charter by Gilbert Broun, perpetual commendator of the monastery of Sweetheart in Newabbey, near Dumfries. 17 His protocol book recording his activities as a notary is not in the Ewart collection in the Dumfries Public Library and we do not believe it has survived. Abbot Gilbert Broun was a very prominent figure in early 17th century Dumfries.  He was accused of single-handedly keeping almost the whole southwest of Scotland in “ignorance and idolatry”. Due to his efforts, Dumfries was said to have become the seat of excommunicated papists and Jesuits. 18 

In 1581 both John and David were called as witnesses in a court case involving deforcement.19  In Scottish law deforcement refers to resisting officials who are employed in the execution of their legal duties.  In 1583 both of them were denounced as rebels for not bearing witness in a court case. 20 It was in 1583 that Johne was first mentioned as Clerk of the Commissary Court. 21 As late as 1606 he was still a notary public in Dumfries. 22 It was in 1601 that the records began to demonstrate Johne’s difficulties resulting from his adherence to his Roman Catholic faith in the face of the Reformation.  He was on the wrong side, or at least the losing side, of Scottish history and it would upend his life and the lives of all those who followed him.  Had he adapted to the tide of history and converted to Protestantism this paper would have a very different nature and would likely be a short history of a Scottish family. 

In November 1601 Johne McGhie was among a long list of inhabitants of Dumfries called to answer for “their Popish proclivities”.  The charges were he was hearing mass and profaning the Sacraments, he was aiding Jesuits and seminary priests, and he was trafficking papists.  All were forbidden by diverse Acts of Parliament and Secret Council.  When his Majesty was informed that those charged had not only aided Jesuits but also had been with them at mass, they were called upon to answer in the matter before the King and Council on 17 December under pain of rebellion. 23 Many of the defendants appeared but Johne got a certificate from the bailies and council of Dumfries stating that “disease and infirmitie” precluded his personal appearance.  A reading of the charges makes it clear that the defendants were accused of hearing mass and aiding both John Hammiltoun and Gilbert Browne, Abbot of Newabbey (Sweetheart Abbey).  Newabbey is located about seven miles west of Dumfries in Kirkcudbrightshire.  Browne was charged with not only saying mass but baptizing “sindrie bairns.”  Trial was set for 14 January next but the outcome of the trial is not known.  Whatever the outcome, it is clear it did not deter John.  

Events between 1601 and 1606 are unknown to me, but by 31 January 1606, John McGie (also spelled John McKie in the document), had been excommunicated and appeared before His Highnesses Council in the Tollbooth in Edinburgh.  He declared he was not presently resolved to subscribe to the Confession of Faith and asked for additional time to resolve the matter.  He was granted until the first of March, providing that in the interim he confer with the brethren of Nithisdaill for his resolution, keep himself as a private man (remember the requirements above for shunning of those who persisted in Catholicism), and use no public calling. He was thereafter to subscribe to the Confession of Faith and the articles of religion presently confessed within the realm.  He was to adjure papistry, and thereafter appear on two Sundays in the place of public repentance in the church of Dumfries. There he was to confess he had done wrong, and that it was his own fault that he had been so long excommunicated.  Thereafter the minister of Dumfries would absolve him. 24

This also failed to deter Johne.  And on 28 March 1606 the ministers of Dumfries filed a complaint before the Lords of His Highnesses Secret Council against “Johne MckGie, excommunicate”.  It was complained that at no point since Johne’s 31 January appearance in the Tollbooth had he satisfied the Kirk as he was directed.  But instead, after continual “driftes and delayes”, he absolutely refused to do anything.  Moreover, he stated his intention to stay in the country to the discontentment of the Kirk, notwithstanding any remedies of law. 25 Next was a complaint by the Presbytery of Dumfries in 1606 that John McGie, Commissary Clerk of Dumfries, had refused to ‘adjure papistry’ under pain of rebellion, had declared that he was not resolved to subscribe, had continued his clerkship of the court and had declared he would continue in the country  to their discontentment. 26 For his defiance he was denounced a rebel.  The statement that he had declared he would continue in the country to the discontentment of the Commissioners suggests he had been threatened with banishment.  At the same time there were accusations against William Douglas, Tenth Earl of Angus, for at numerous times during 1606, committing the offense of “disregarding the excommunication of Johne McGie, sometime Commissary Clerk of Dumfries and instead treating him with great kindness, familiaritie and friendschip, as if no such sentence had been pronounced against him.”27 William Douglas, Tenth Earl, was himself an on-and-off Roman Catholic and a direct descendant of King James I of Scotland. This was probably the same man involved in examining John’s suitability to be a Notary Public in 1574. 

The final and ultimately most serious clashes with the Crown and the Reformation began in 1607.  The reformers had successfully petitioned parliament for the authority to pull down the abbeys, which they regarded as symbols of the abuses of the old Church.  But the progress of the Reformation was slow to take hold in those regions where Catholicism was strongly entrenched and in certain enclaves in the southwest, such as Dumfries, the abbeys still stood and mass continued to be said in spite of it being a punishable offence.  In June 1607 members of the King’s Guard were sent to apprehend Gilbert Broun, Abbott of Newabbey.  Abbott Broun had been ordered to disband Newabbey, an order which he defied. When the Guard attempted to apprehend Abbot Broun,  “Johnne McGhie, sometime Commissary Clerk of Dumfries, Johnne Maxwell, called Robert’s Jock with convocatioun of a grite nowmer of the rude and ignorant people of the Newabbay’” armed with staves, muskets and hagbuts came to the Guard in “a tumultuous and unseamelie maner,” and “directlie and avowedlie withstood and resisted the apprehensioun of the said Mr. Gilbert, and consequentlie the executioun of his Majesteis commissioun granted to that effect.”28   The offenders were called to answer the charges but evidently failed to appear.  In 1608 Johnne McGhie, Johnne Maxwell, Thomas Turnoure (called Thome of the Play), Mungo Grassie (or Grecy) in Newabbay, Richard Broun, son of Abbott Gilbert Broun, Richard Broun and John Broun of Lochill were denounced rebels.29 In time the authorities would be more successful and eventually Broun’s front door would be knocked down by John Spottiswood and the “grite number of bookis, copes, imageis and uther popische trasche” found in his chambers burned in the streets of Dumfries.  Abbot Broun was then warded in Blackness castle.  Upon his release he left Scotland for good, dying in Paris in about 1612, at the reputed age of one hundred. 30      

4.  FLIGHT TO IRELAND
Burke’s Peerage states John left Scotland and settled in Strabane in 1610.1 On 5 December 1610 an entry in James Cunningham’s protocol book states “James Cunyngham as procurator for John McGhie insests Janet Reddick in liferent and David McGhie their natural son in fee in a tenement in Friar’s Rennick occupied by Richard Moir and belonging to the said John McGhie”. Witnesses included several burgesses of Dumfries, including James, Patrick and John Young, plus Edward Horner, husband of John’s cousin Margaret Makgee.2  A procurator (agent) was required when someone was not present to conduct business, therefore requiring an agent; I believe John had gone to Ireland. 

We do not know of any siblings for John but it appears that he had cousins Helen, Margaret and William.  Margaret married Edward Horner, a burgess of Dumfries and died in 1647.3  William died before 18 August 1596.  Besides son David, John had daughters Jean and Isabella, both of whom were described as being natural daughters, just as David was later mentioned as a natural son. 4  We know nothing of Jean and little of Isabella. As they were referred to as natural rather than legal children it would seem that John and Janet Reddick were not married when these children were born, at least not in the eyes of the Presbyterian authorities.  What became of John’s cousins or of his daughters Jean and Isabella is not known, although we do know that Isabella was married and in 1622 she was in Strabane, Co. Tyrone, where she signed inherited property over to her brother David.5  
I submit that John eventually found living in Scotland no longer tenable and that he went to County Tyrone, possibly landing at Dunnalong, and settled among the Scottish Roman Catholic settlers there in and around Strabane and just across the river in Lifford, Donegal.  These Catholic settlers were probably descendants of the families of gallowglass (mercenary soldiers) which had been in the area since 1569.  After the commencement of the Plantation they were tolerated or encouraged by Protestant James Hamilton, the Earl of Abercorn and his Catholic brother Sir George, both of whom had Plantation patents in the area. The settlement consisted of 60-80 families and still retained a distinctly Scottish identity. The Hamiltons, as patent holders, would have been competing with other patent holders to recruit men of means to settle on their new Ulster estates.  Many such men of means were not willing assume the risks involved with settling on the new Ulster estates.  The poorer men probably would not have succeeded.  John McGhie needed a safe place to settle beyond the reach of both English and Scottish authorities, an area where the Reformation had gained no traction.  Settling in Ulster created a match of both needs and opportunity.  It is not clear whether John McGhie knew the Hamiltons while living in Scotland.   

From the perspective furnished by 400 years of history, it seems ironic that Catholic John McGhie fled Scotland and was caught up in the scheme to transform Ireland into a reliably Protestant part of the dominions of King James I of England!  Even more ironic would be the results: temporary refuge for John followed by continued religious persecution for some of his descendants.  John was pushed out of Scotland by one great social, political and religious event, the Reformation, only to be swept up into one of the most consequential mass migrations in European history, the emigration of Scots to Ulster during the Plantation.

We know little about John once he settled in Tyrone.  He died 26 February 1617 in Balliburne (now known as Holy Hill) and is buried with his family in the Old Leckpatrick Cemetery in Artigarvan, just north of Strabane, along the road to Londonderry.  His grave, which is one of the oldest marked graves in Northern Ireland, is covered with a fine carved stone with a coat of arms still legible.  The writing around the edge of the stone reads “Here lies the body of John Maghee who died 26 February 1617 and his family.”  Above the coat of arms is a hand holding a dagger and above that hand is a Celtic cross.   We know the John McGhie, who is buried in Old Leckpatrick Cemetary, is the same man as the one we have been examining due to a Service of Heir dated 22 October 1617, in which property in Dumfries belonging to the late John Makghie, notary and Clerk of the Commissary Court in Dumfries who died February 1617 is transferred to his natural son David and to a sasine in which the place of death and date are given.7   

5.   THE PLANTATION OF IRELAND
In 1603 James Stuart, James VI of Scotland, assumed the throne of England upon the death of his cousin Elizabeth Tudor, Elizabeth I.  He became King James I of England, Wales and Ireland while remaining King James VI of Scotland.  Although James was the monarch of both England and Scotland, the two countries remained separate states until the Act of Union a century later.  His mother, Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots, had been beheaded 16 years earlier following her involvement in plots to assassinate Elizabeth I and install herself as queen of England, Wales, Ireland and Scotland.  Upon his assumption of the throne, James faced the same strategic situations as had his English predecessors: how to protect England from being attacked by the French and Spanish through Ireland or Scotland. 

In March, 1603, the same month that James assumed the throne, the chiefs of the O’Neills and the O’Donnells, the leading families of Ulster, surrendered to the English, concluding the Nine Years War.  This had been the latest and perhaps most devastating in a long line of struggles to arrest the steady expansion of English power in Ireland.  It was in Ulster that Gaelic Ireland had made its last stand against the foreign invader.  It had been a particularly bitter struggle and Ulster had been devastated.  The counties of Antrim and Down were described by contemporary writers as “all waste.”1   

James was no more sympathetic to Gaelic traditions than his Tudor predecessors on the English throne.  While still King of Scotland he had been preoccupied with the problems posed by his own minorities in the Highlands and Islands, whom he once described as utterly barbarous.  In the 1590s he had sponsored a scheme of internal colonization or plantation, handing over the island of Lewis to a party of Lowland adventurers.  These men were to bring civilization and commerce to the Western Isles in a project that allowed for the wholesale extermination of the local Gaelic clans.  This plan fell apart, but the idea of thorough replacement of the Irish with Scottish settlers evidently stuck in his mind.  

Although James was not the first monarch of England to attempt to pacify Ireland, he was soon to be presented with an event that made a comprehensively different approach possible.  Previous attempts at pacification had been made more difficult by the existence of Irish lords who contested the conquest of Anglo-Norman and English invaders.  Furthermore, the earlier invaders, having gradually assumed Irish ways and Irish wives, further frustrated those future attempts at pacification.  Much to the annoyance of English kings and parliaments, these invaders remained Roman Catholics and were virtually indistinguishable from those they had conquered and had been intended to control.  Of course the erosion of “Englishness” was recognized as dangerous and is illustrated by an amusing yet enlightening poem that was current in Elizabethan times. 
We know from good experience
It is a dangerous thing
For one into his naked bed
A poisoning toad to bring;
Or else a deadly crocodile,
When as he goeth to rest
To lie with him; and as his mate
To place next to his breast. 
Likening Irish women to crocodiles and poisoning toads does not do justice to their charms but does give a sense of the degree to which the Irish were viewed with wariness and scorn. 2 

The details of the previous attempts to pacify Ireland varied widely but one key factor was held in common, they all failed to establish a sizeable, durable area of English control.  But on 4 September 1607 Hugh O’Neill, the Earl of Tyrone and Rory O’Donnell, Earl of Tyrconnel (now Donegal), along with numerous friends, relatives and followers boarded ship on Lough Swilly to sail away into exile in France.  O’Neill and O’Donnell had made their peace with the government four years earlier at the conclusion of the Nine Years War.  Yet subsequently they had been subject to almost continual harassment by the Dublin authorities.  Fearing for their safety, they fled to the continent never to return.  This flight, known since as the Flight of the Earls, set off a chain of events which has influenced virtually every important event in the subsequent history of the island.  

Once the earls departed new vistas of opportunity were available to James VI and I.  The earls were convicted of treason and their lands were forfeited to the crown.  Although not all of the lands of Ulster were made available as a result of their flight, the counties of Donegal, Tyrone, Coleraine (now Londonderry), Armagh, Cavan and Fermanagh were ultimately involved.  This vast landscape of millions of acres, sparsely occupied by people widely misunderstood and despised, was about to be transformed.  So it was that John MacGhie became a participant, even if an unwilling and unintended participant, in these events, known as the Plantation of Ireland.

The backbone of the plantation was composed of prominent English and Scottish men who were given patents, entitling them to sizeable grants of land.  In return for these patents they undertook to settle the land with English and Scottish settlers and to build defensible dwellings and farm structures.  It is interesting to note that during the reign of Queen Mary (1553-1558), a law had been passed which made it illegal to assist the coming of Scots into Ireland.  To marry with any Scottish man or woman was a felony for which the offender was liable to suffer the pains of death and loss of goods.  However, when James came to the throne a new act was required to facilitate settling Scots in Ireland and the previous act was repealed.  

The confiscation of six of the Ulster counties, coupled with legislation encouraging the inflow of adventurers, changed the face of these counties.  Rev. James Stewart, wrote in about 1670:  “King James had prepared a place and liberty in Ireland for them the Scots, and having given some lands to some men who he had mobilated, these men sought tenants for their lands; and from Scotland came many and from England not a few, yet all of them generally the scum of both nations, who, for debt, or breaking and fleeing from justice, or seeking shelter, came thither, hoping to be without fear of man’s justice in a land where there was nothing, or but little, as yet, of the fear of God.  And in a few years there flocked such a multitude of people from Scotland that these northern counties of Down, Antrim, Londonderry, &c. were in good measure planted, which had been waste before; yet most of the people, as I said before, made up a body (and, it’s strange, of different names, dialects, tempers, breeding, and, in a word, all void of godliness), who seemed rather to flee from God in this enterprise than to follow their own mercy.  Yet God followed them when they fled from Him-albeit, at first it must be remembered that they cared little for any church.” 3 Among the adventurers who received patents was Sir George Hamilton of Greenlaw, who received a patent for 1500 acres in the Strabane Barony, County Tyrone.  Sir George was a Catholic and, contrary to the intent of the plans for the plantation, imported numerous Catholic families to Strabane.  In 1630 this led the Bishop of Derry to warn that a rebellion would break out if such settlement was allowed to continue. 4   John McGhie was among those early Scottish Catholic settlers and in one way he seems to fit the description given by Rev. Stewart in that he was fleeing to a place beyond the reach of the law.  However it is jarring to hear a man, who was so motivated by religious conscience, described as godless.  

In 1630 the number of Catholic settlers so alarmed the Earl of Cork that he warned that King James’ policy of planting civilization and Protestantism in Co. Tyrone had not had the good effect which was expected of it.  Rather, by giving estates to the Earl of Abercorn, Sir William Hamilton and Claude Hamilton, the Master of Abercorn and other noble gentlemen of Scotland, the result had been far from encouraging Protestantism.  Rather it had encouraged and drawn thither Papists.5  A few months earlier the Bishop of Derry had warned the Lord Chancellor of Ireland that “Since he got part of the Earl of Abercorn’s grant of the Barony of Strabane, Sir George Hamilton has done his best to plant Popery there, and has brought over priests and Jesuits from Scotland.  The Earl’s second son, Claude, whom they call the Master of Abercorn, has now succeeded to his estates, and as Sir William has inherited the proportion of his father Sir Claude, all the Hamilton lands are now in the hands of Papists.  The Master of Abercorn is harbouring Papists, and the Provost of Strabane was afraid to arrest them.  I have advised the Master if he will not embrace the reformed religion to keep his own religion to himself and not to poison others with the venom of Popery.  At my recent visitation certain recusants who were presented said that, as Roman Catholics were winked at in Court, they should not be questioned; but it must be remembered that they were planted for the express purpose of establishing the Protestant religion.  What course do you suggest?” 6 The reply to the Bishop’s query is unknown. 

At the same time, the Bishop wrote to Claude, Master of Abercorn, at Strabane.  “I hear that, though your father was given land at Strabane in order to maintain the reformed religion, the place is become the sink into which all the corrupt humours purged out of Scotland run.  Idolatrous Popish masses are daily celebrated.  As your Church is heretical and your Pope an anti-Christ, I think it my duty to oppose you, but, before appealing to the higher authorities, I write to ask you to come and see me in order that I may convince you that you are in the wrong.  Meantime the Provost of Strabane is to arrest the two Papists McSwyne and Blackney.  You will resist him at your peril.” 7

Finally, on 9 January 1630 the Bishop added the following warning.  “Sir George Hamilton, who is otherwise a courteous and civil gentleman, has tried to draw people to Popery.  Claude Hamilton, Master of Abercorn, would be a hopeful young gentleman were he not poisoned with Popery, but countenances Papists so much that there will be a revolt in Strabane if any more of the Scotch Papists come there.  The Archbishop of Glasgow has sent to me (the Bishop of Derry) hoping that I will not harbor in my diocese Papists who have been expelled from Scotland. “8
In 1610 the population of County Tyrone was probably not more than 20,000 persons with virtually all of them being Gaelic Irish. 9   While figures for the Strabane Barony where John McGhie settled are not available for 1610, surveys in 1619 and 1622 show that between the portions reported by Sir George Hamilton and that of his brother James, there was a claimed total of between 231 and 274 Scottish families. 10

To achieve an understanding of the events involving John McGhie and his descendants in Ireland it will be necessary to consider the attitudes of the Protestant settlers and government at that time.  On the surface, the attitudes toward Catholics would not appear to be much different in the Ireland of 1610 than they were in Scotland, inasmuch as persecution was general and pervasive in both countries.  However, although persecution was the law in both Ireland and Scotland, there seems to have been a particular animus toward Catholics in Ireland.  In many ways the Irish Catholics, sometimes referred to as “wild Irish”, were regarded as little more than wild beasts.

It is into this tumultuous landscape that John McGhie fled.  We do not know whether his wife, Janet Reddick, went with him to Ireland.  John’s gravestone says that buried with him is his family.  So it is entirely possible that his wife and daughters are interred there with him.

6.  THE WORLD IN 1610
Galileo Galilei had only the year before demonstrated his first telescope to Venetian officials and the great discoveries about the solar system were still to come.  The colony of Jamestown was founded in 1607, just three years earlier and William Shakespeare was still living in retirement. The Thirty-Year, war which was to devastate much of Europe, would begin 18 years hence.  And 10 years would have to pass before the voyage of the Mayflower. 

One otherwise unremarkable event of 1610 deserves particular note as it relates directly to one of the elements leading to the flight of John McGhie from Scotland and much of Irish history for centuries to come.  In an address to Parliament on 21 March 1610, King James I, confirming the inseparability of politics and religion in the 17th century, said “The state of Monarchy is the supremest thing upon earth; for kings are not only God’s lieutenants upon earth and sit upon God’s throne, but even by God himself they are called gods.  Kings are justly called gods for that they exercise a manner or resemblance of Divine power upon earth; for if you will consider the attributes of God you shall see how they agree in the person of a king:  God hath power to create or destroy, make or unmake at his pleasure; to give life or send death; to judge all, and to be judged nor accountable to none; to raise low things and to make high things low at his pleasure; and to God are both soul and body due.  And the like power have kings: they make and unmake their subjects; they have power of raising and casting down; of life and death; judges over all their subjects and in all causes, and yet accountable to none but God only.  They have power to exalt low things and abase high things, and make of their subjects like men at the chess, a pawn to take a bishop or a knight, and to cry up or down any of their subjects as they do their money.  And to the King is due both the affection of the soul and the service of the body of his subjects.”1
To modern ears these assertions strike with a great clang.  They seem extraordinary, expansive, and outrageously contradictory to modern ideas of governance and the relationship between governors and the governed, yet they were not so in 1610.  There were more and more of those who were beginning to question the rightful place of the monarchy and the sweep of their powers.  But the idea of a monarch’s absolute right to govern, that right having been given by God, was commonplace at the time.  In this context it is not difficult to see that political disagreements became treachery and treachery became heresy.  Godliness, necessarily, included political and religious obedience.  In one person, King James was both the head of state and head of the church.  Thus disobedience carried both civil and spiritual consequences.

7.  DAVID MACGHEE
We know that John’s son David was born (almost surely in Scotland) before 1610, probably about 1600, and that he was in Ireland by 1622, where he is listed among a group of Scottish settlers on the land of Sir George Hamilton.  Listed with him is John Browne, perhaps a man from the family of Abbott Gilbert Browne and possibly the man of that name who was denounced as a rebel along with David’s father John in 1608. 1 We know little about David personally. His date of birth around 1600 makes him very close to the same age as Oliver Cromwell.   We do not know where and in what manner he was educated.  What little we know of David personally comes almost entirely from his will, in which are named his wife Catherine and several but not all of their children.  Catherine is probably Catherine Browne.  From an Exchequer Bill of 26 Jan 1676 and reply of 28 Nov 1676, it seems likely she was a member of the same Browne family which came from Dumfries to Strabane about the same time as John McGhie. 2  James MacGhee, son of David and Catherine, was a witness to John Browne’s nuncupative will in which Catherine was left the house in Strabane and where she and her children lived.  It is clear from the records that David was a Catholic, a man of considerable talents, and that he rose to a position of great stature in Tyrone.  By 1628 he was Seneschal of the Abercorn Strabane manor estates in Tyrone, a position to which he was appointed in 1625 following the death of a previous seneschal, William Lynne. 3  A seneschal was roughly equivalent to an estate manager in modern terminology.  As such he would have exercised great control over business matters including leases, farming and relations with tenants.  As the official in charge of the manor court he would have been the key figure in resolving legal disputes between tenants and adjudicating minor criminal offenses.  He was to maintain this position until his death in 1678.4  As seneschal he would have been one of the most influential figures in Tyrone since the Hamiltons (Lords Abercorn) were often absentee landlords.  David received denization in 1631, recognition that although he was of the Scottish nation, he was entitled to the benefits and protections of the laws of Ireland, including the rights of residence and land ownership.5  There are numerous records of David’s activities on behalf of and with the Hamiltons.  Two of them, evidence of land acquisitions, are of particular interest and may well explain the names of two of David’s sons, George and Claude.  He received the townland of Balliburney, alias Holy Hill, in Leckpatrick Parish from Sir George Hamilton the elder, Knight and Scottish Catholic.  He is listed in the Civil Survey of 1654 as David Marghee, Scottish Papist.6  Also in the 1654 Civil Survey he is listed as David Marghue, holding the 100 acres of Drumnaboy in neighboring Camus Juxta-Mourne Parish from Claude Hamilton, Baron of Strabane, also a Scottish Catholic.7  It was not uncommon at that time to name children after benefactors and it is my belief that Sir George Hamilton, who had given David’s father a refuge in Ireland and later granted David rights to substantial holdings of land, is the source of the name for David’s eldest son George.  Similarly with Claude Hamilton (Sir George Hamilton’s nephew), the land grants would indicate adequate reasons for naming another son Claude.  As far as we are able to determine, neither name was used in the family before that time.

Further evidence that the relationship between David MacGhee and Sir George Hamilton was a very strong one may be found in two other land transactions and David’s will.  By orders dated 26 Feb 1669(70) and 12 May 1673, Sir George Hamilton of Nenagh appointed James Hamilton of Crewe (Crew) and David McGhee of Strabane, gent, his attorneys to execute estates pursuant to his orders, including to Jane, Lady Strabane, widow of Lord Claude Hamilton and to his daughters and younger sons.8  Also, as part of an indenture between Sir George Hamilton of Nenagh and Patrick Hamilton, Sir George appoints David Macghee and James Macghee as his executors and refers to them as his “beloveds in Christ.”9  Finally, in David’s will (APPENDIX I), it will be seen that David forgave a substantial debt of 150 pounds owed to David by Sir George Hamilton of Nenagh. 

Between 1654 and 1660 little is known of David’s activities, although in Section 21 you will read of evidence he was in Co. Clare for at least part of that time.  In addition, there are records of a land transaction in 1661 in which David is named as seneschal to Abercorn and that James Macghee is authorized to assist him.10

One additional thing known about David is that by the time of his death in 1678, he had converted to the Church of Ireland.11  Whether this represented a change of heart regarding his religion or a recognition that his position in the society of Tyrone and the future well-being of his children required such a change is unknown.  As will be seen, not all of his children followed his lead.

In his will David is referred to as “of Loghmony.”  Loghmony was a location in Camus Juxta-Mourne parish.  The name is no longer in use but may have been in the present townland of Evish.  Also, he was referred to as “of Loghony” when he was recorded as being a member of a Chancery Inquisition Jury in 1638. 12

8.  THE GREAT REBELLION OF 1641
Before we proceed with a discussion of David’s children, the rebellion of 1641 and the Williamite War should be discussed.  The rebellion began 22 October 1641 in Ulster as an uprising among the Irish nobility, led by Sir Phelim O’Neill.  O’Neill was a descendant of the O’Neills who had not left with Hugh O’Neill, Earl of Tyrone, during the Flight of the Earls.  They had many grievances, but chief among them were fears regarding their privileges and land, which they felt had been unjustly curtailed and were being rapidly eroded.  These nobles, although Catholic, were loyalists in the sense they were not opposed to Protestant Charles I but hoped, in fact, that he would side with them.  The rebellion was shortly to engulf nearly all of Ireland and resulted in a bewildering and fluid series of alliances.  

While the rebellion of 1641 was consuming Ireland, the civil wars between the forces of Parliament and Charles I broke out in England.  As had his father James I, Charles insisted upon his right to rule as an absolute monarch.  Yet Parliament objected to his absolutism and invocation of divine right.  The smoldering resentments felt by the English people and Parliament were fanned into flames by John Pym in Parliament.  Pym played upon and encouraged fear and loathing of Catholicism and fears of imminent popish plots of invasion. These fears of Catholics were no doubt aggravated further by the very public presence of the Queen, Henrietta Maria, daughter of King Henry IIII of France and Marie de Medici, and her many personal servants, all of whom were free to and did practice their Catholic religion publicly. To make things worse for Charles, the Scots were in open rebellion over changes that the Archbishop of Canterbury, William Laud, was attempting to impose on the Scottish Kirk.  The 1641 rebellion put fear into the hearts of many; here was proof that Catholics could not be trusted.  The Irish Confederation sided with Charles in the battle and Ireland then became a battleground which was to see unimaginable destruction.  Most Irish, certainly the vast majority of the native population, and a large majority of the Anglo-Irish who had been there for centuries, were also largely Catholic. They supported Charles in the Civil War and were Catholic loyalists to a Protestant king.  These loyalists were horrified when Charles was beheaded by the Rump Parliament after a trial of dubious legitimacy.  The rebellion in Ireland did not end until Cromwell brought his New Model Army over from England in 1649.  Although we know nothing of David’s involvement, this tragic event in Irish history shaped lives all over the island, including those of David’s children.  As we will see, some of David’s children sided with Charles and were again caught up in a great conflict on the losing side.

As mentioned earlier, sometime before 1654, David was granted - in freehold - the house and lands of Holy Hill, amounting to about 120 acres.  Holy Hill is in the Parish of Leckpatrick just a few miles north of Strabane in the direction of Londonderry.  A freehold grant, in contrast to most leases of the time, conveyed the property to the grantee forever.  As a consequence, a freehold grant was the most advantageous to the grantee.  The house on the property at that time was probably built by Sir George Hamilton, who granted the land to David.  However it was burned in 1641 during the Great Rebellion.  It is not known whether David owned it at that time, but there is evidence that he was in Co. Clare for several years after the Rebellion.  This absence from Tyrone may have been precipitated by the burning of his house and the sacking of Strabane.  The house was rebuilt and remained in the possession of the MacGhees until 1683, when it was sold to Rev. John Sinclair.  It is believed there have been substantial changes made to the house over the centuries but it remains standing and the present owners, Hamilton and Margaret Thompson, have done a splendid job of maintaining its dignity and beautiful setting.  

9. THE WILLIAMITE WARS  
James Stuart was the second son of beheaded King Charles I.  After the execution of his father, he and his elder brother Charles went into exile in France.  After the death of Oliver Cromwell on 3 September 1658 and a brief and fitful attempt to maintain the Protectorate by Cromwell’s eldest son Richard, the monarchy was restored and Charles was crowned as Charles II.  When Charles II died of a stroke in 1685, James was crowned as King James II on April 23, 1685. 

A crucial and pivotal difference between James II and his three Stuart predecessors was that, although raised a Protestant, he had converted to Catholicism before becoming king.  His brother and predecessor Charles II had a death bed conversion but for his entire reign he was a Protestant.  Not only was James II a sincerely devout Catholic but he took steps to greatly enhance the legal and legislative standings of Catholics in his three kingdoms.  He took these steps without Parliamentary agreement.  This and other arbitrary actions brought him into direct and catastrophic conflict with the main political powers in England and Scotland.  In England the principal political powers were in the very conservative rural gentry, who were overwhelmingly Anglican and for whom Catholics and Catholicism were deeply suspect.  In Scotland the principal political powers were exercised primarily by Calvinists who were, if anything, more suspicious of and hostile to the Roman church than their counterparts to the south.  

Even before James became king, Parliament had become very concerned about a Catholic succession to the throne.  The Test Act was passed in 1673, excluding Catholics from political office.  Although another bill, one to prevent James from assuming the throne, failed, the Anglican noblemen were clearly not going to readily accept a Catholic monarch.  After James was crowned, the levels of distrust remained high and the noblemen were galvanized into action when a male heir, James Edward Stuart, was born in 1688 to James and his second wife, Mary of Modena, whom some described as an agent of the Pope.  As long as James was without a male heir he could be tolerated because upon his death the throne would pass to his daughter Mary, a Protestant.  However, with a male Catholic heir now first in line for the throne, a group of noblemen invited the Dutch Protestant, William of Orange and James’s nephew, husband of his eldest daughter Mary, to come to England to restore Protestantism.  William agreed and landed at Torbay in 1688, advancing on London in what became known as the Glorious Revolution.  James quickly fled to France and his daughter Mary was offered the throne, which she accepted in joint rule with William.  They were crowned as King William III and Queen Mary II on 11 April 1689.

Although the war was over in England, another phase soon opened up in Ireland. Ironically, there seems to be no evidence that either of the protagonists, James II or William III, had any particular interest in Ireland or its people.  William needed a stable Ireland to head off French interests and to assure a compliant Parliament. He needed the English populace to finance his continental wars with Louis XIV of France.  James hoped to use Ireland as a jumping-off point in his campaign to regain his English throne.  Of his three kingdoms of England, Scotland and Ireland only in Ireland was there a Catholic majority and James attempted to capitalize on this advantage.  He convened the “Patriot Parliament”, which met in Kilkenny in 1689, the only Irish Parliament held under James and the first Irish Parliament convened since 1666.  The Patriot Parliament was overwhelmingly Roman Catholic and they passed a number of measures, including the Act of Recognition, which recognized James’s right to rule by virtue of divine right and not subject to limitations imposed by the governed.  They also passed legislation granting full freedom of worship and civic and political equality to Catholics.  For our purposes, this Parliament is notable by its membership.  Claude Hamilton, from whom David Macghee had received property in Tyrone, sat in the Irish House of Lords.  Sir Thomas Crosby, Knight, the future father-in-law to David’s grandson Captain Theobald Macghee, represented County Kerry.  Thomas Harrold, alderman of Limerick City and a member of the family which would inherit most of the fortune of George Macghee,  esq., another of David’s grandsons, represented Limerick City.1  These names illustrate the extent to which David’s descendants were associated with the cause of the Stuart kings.  

James attempted to take advantage of what he saw as an opening by landing in Kinsale on 12 March 1689, hoping to gain a foothold in Ireland and use that foothold to regain his crown.  In this effort he was supported and encouraged by Louis XIV who sent French troops to support James and French money to finance the campaign.  All of this began to unravel when, on 1 July 1690, the French and the Irish Jacobite armies of James were defeated by the forces of William III at the Battle of the Boyne, an event which is celebrated to this day in boisterous, triumphalist and occasionally violent parades in parts of Northern Ireland. 

We do not know of the activities of most of David’s descendants, his sons and grandsons, during the Williamite War in Ireland, but we do know that two grandsons were named as Jacobites, supporters of James and subject to penalties after the war.  The two were Major David Magee, listed as being of Clare, Caraghan (now Carrahan, Clooney Parish) in 1694 and Captain Theobald listed as being in Gralaghbegg, Mayo, on 21 July 1698. 2 We believe that Major David was the son of John Macghee (another of David’s sons whom we shall come to later) and that Theobald was the son of Capt. George MacGhee.  For the moment, this listing of Theobald as a Jacobite and the local legends of Portmagee constitute the bulk of our knowledge of his activities during the war.  What we do know are the consequences of the Williamite War in Ireland.  For members of the Church of Ireland, it assured their ascendancy for the next century.  They dominated every sphere of Irish life from the Irish Parliament, to the Army, to control of the official church.  In some cases this dominance was executed through short-sighted, counter-productive means which would lead to problems still awaiting resolution.  Among these were the Penal Acts, which will be discussed in section 10.  

For Catholics, in particular the Irish nobility and gentry, the Williamite War was a disaster.  It finished that group as a significant force in Irish affairs.  Many of the most able and enterprising representatives of Catholic Ireland fled abroad as merchants and soldiers.  Thousands of former Jacobites fled to Europe to serve in the armies of France , Spain and Austria.  Decades later, de Tocqueville wrote, “If you want to know what can be done by the spirit of conquest and religious hatred combined with the abuses of aristocracy, but without any of its advantages, go to Ireland.”     

10. THE PENAL LAWS
From the earliest days of the rule of James I the English had grave concerns regarding toleration of Roman Catholicism in Ireland.  On the one hand they wished to assure the dominance of the Church of Ireland.  Yet on the other hand they needed the support of the Anglo-Irish, most of whom were themselves Catholic.  Matters came to a head in 1605 with the “Gunpowder Plot”, designed to destroy Parliament and kill King James I, planned by a group of English Catholics dissatisfied with James’ failure to relax existing laws restricting the rights of Catholics in England.  The discovery of the plot is celebrated in England to this day by what has come to be called “Bonfire Night”, every 5 November.  It provided all the final justification needed for what are known as the Penal Laws, designed to force Irish Catholics (and Presbyterians) to accept the reformed denomination as defined by English and Irish law.

With the defeat of James II in Ireland and crowns on the heads of Protestant monarchs William and Mary, a ruling class known as the Protestant Ascendancy passed laws designed to assure the permanent domination of the Church of Ireland.  The measures, designed to be so restrictive as to force Catholics and Presbyterians to conform to the established church.  Among the most notable were:
* Exclusion of Catholics from most public offices
* A ban on Catholic marriages being legally recognized by the state.
* A ban on Catholics holding firearms or serving in the Army
* A ban on Catholics from voting
* A ban on Catholics being members of Parliament
* A ban on Catholics in the legal professions
* A ban on Catholics educating their children abroad
* A ban on Catholics entering Trinity College Dublin
* Upon the death of a Catholic landowner the land was to be divided equally between all the landowner’s sons, except that if the eldest son and heir converted to Protestantism he would become the one and only tenant of estate and the portions for other children could not be in excess of one third of the estate.  This law, known as the Popery Act, assured the steady impoverishment of Catholic landowners as holdings became smaller and smaller over generations.
* A ban on Catholics inheriting Protestant land
* A ban on Protestants converting to Catholicism.  The penalty was forfeiting all property and imprisonment of a duration to be at the pleasure of the monarch.  
* A ban on Catholics holding property leases in excess of 31 years
* A ban on Catholics being granted custody of orphans
* New Catholic churches were to be built from wood, not stone, and away from main roads
* A ban on Catholics being teachers 
* A ban on Catholics owning a horse valued at over Ł5 (to keep horses suitable for military activity out of Catholic hands) 

Edmond Burke described this body of laws as “a machine of wise and elaborate contrivance; as well fitted for the oppression, impoverishment and degradation of a people, and the debasement in them of human nature itself, as ever proceeded from the perverted ingenuity of man.” 
Historians disagree as to how vigorously these laws were enforced.  The consensus view seems to be that enforcement depended on the attitudes of the local officials, some of whom were rigorous, others more liberal.  

11. THE CONVERT ROLLS 
To assure the domination of public and professional life by the Church of Ireland, pressures on Catholics to “conform”, or to convert to the Church of Ireland were increased.  To formalize the process of conversion, the “Act to Prevent the Further Growth of Popery” was passed in 1703.  This made it obligatory for converts from Catholicism to Protestantism to provide proof of conformity.  The term “Protestant”, according to this act, referred only to a member of the Church of Ireland and that term did not include other denominations such as Presbyterians and Lutherans.  The legal disabilities, discussed above in Section 10, in relation to property, professions, etc. that were imposed on Catholics, ceased to operate upon becoming a Protestant.

Probably because conversion had such significant legal and societal consequences, lists of those who converted were kept and were made available for public review.  These have been collected and combined and are preserved in a book called, appropriately enough, “The Convert Rolls”, edited by Jane O’Byrne with additional material edited by Anne Chamney.  While looking through the roughly 5800 names of converts between 1703 and 1838 in an effort to find information about a relative or other person of interest, it would be easy to consider the book only a list of names.  I think it is more useful to consider the consequences, the heart wrenching, agonizing decisions, the rifts caused within families which must have resulted from these choices, whether they were made as the results of conscience or through the cold acceptance of facts. 

Bowen asserted that (in 1809) not one in ten thousand Irishmen had given serious consideration to the various arguments for and against the tenets of their beliefs and that not one in twenty could clearly explain, with any accuracy, the differences between Catholic and Anglican or between Catholic and Presbyterian or between Presbyterian and Anglican doctrine. 1  Doctrinal differences were not what mattered.  What was more important was, and seems to be today, identity.  Religion culturally separated you from your fellow Irishman.  It determined who you married, where and what sort of work you did, and where you lived.  It was a set of values, a culture, an historical tradition and a deep mistrust and disapproval of the habits and characteristics of the other religious groups.  

Nothing threatened this group identity more than conversion because the individual who converted threatened common understandings within the Catholic and Protestant groups and upset the uneasy balance of power.  It was widely believed by Catholics that changes in religious allegiance were not acts of doctrinal conversion but rather cynical acts designed to secure worldly advantage and that a fund existed under the control of Protestant leaders for buying conversions of Catholics.  Although the converts had sold their souls for worldly preferment, it was widely expected that few would refuse to return to the true faith when the end drew near.  If the deathbed return did not take place, the only possible answer was that either force or intrigue had been used to keep the person from once more affirming his traditional faith.2
The effects of these pressures to conform to the established church were uneven on the MacGhees.  As we will see in the sections discussing descendants of Captain George Macghee, some converted and some did not.  Particularly in the case of descendants of Theobald, some converted against the wishes of their parents.  The effects upon families would likely have been profound and lasting.  
  
12.   THE CHILDREN OF DAVID MACGHEE AND CATHERINE BROWNE
In his nuncupatative (unwritten) will of 9 October 1678 David lists his wife Catherine, his eldest son George and George’s sons David and Toby, sons John and James and an unnamed daughter married to Alexander Browne. That couple had a daughter named Mary Browne, married to John Rea.  We also learn from the will that James was or was-to-be married to Marianna Leighton.  Not mentioned are sons Andrew and Claude.  (I believe the name of the unnamed daughter was Elizabeth.1  In the following paragraphs I will describe what we know of each of the children. A transcription of the will is Appendix 1.  

13. CAPTAIN GEORGE MACGHEE
In his will David says that his eldest son George is to inherit his property at Holy Hill after the death of David’s widow Catherine.  Catherine evidently dies within the next five years for in 1683, George, by then known as Captain George, mortgaged the property to Gordon O’Neill of Crowe in Ardeka parish.1  Gordon O’Neill was the son of Phelim O’Neill, one of the first instigators of the 1641 rebellion and the man declared an Irish Jacobite in 1694 along with Claude, Earl of Abercorn.  I have been unable to identify either Crowe or Ardeka but the location could be Crew, in nearby Ardstraw parish.2  On 20 July 1683 Captain George sold the property to Rev. John Sinclair and on 23 July 1683, O’Neill likewise sells his interest to Sinclair. 

George Macghee attended the Scots College at Douai (now a city in northern France), entering on 22 September 1637 at age 15.  The reference claims Glasgow as his place of birth and that his parents were “Davida and Catharina”.  The reason for his being born in Glasgow is a mystery to us but it may be connected to the fact that the power base for the Hamilton family to which George’s family was connected was Renfrewshire.  We know he also studied rhetoric and philosophy at a seminary in Paris and left his studies at Douai to go to “P. Gall in Hiberniam”, which we take to be Galway, about 1641. 3  Although our reference mentions that George was among those students who left to fight for CharlesI, we have so far found no records of George’s military activities during the 1641 rebellion.  We know that as of 11 December 1680 he was referred to as “of Galway” but by June of 1681 we have seen he was in Tyrone, townland of Ballyburney.  Ballyburney is the original Irish name for Holy Hill.  The same reference documents that his wife was named Helena and that he was settling his estate on Helena, then after her death to her eldest son David.  It also mentions the existence of other unnamed living sons and daughters. 4  We do not know when Captain George died or where he is buried, nor do we know where or when Helena died.  In a very interesting petition of Captain George Magee to Charles II, written sometime between 1670 and 1678, there are further references to his financial difficulties and a connection of those difficulties to something called the Salisbury plot.  He also states he has been responsible for the maintenance of his aging parents and mentions he had 13 or 14 children.  The only two about whom we have any information are David and George.5

14.   DESCENDANTS OF CAPT. GEORGE MACGHEE AND HELENA
We know that Capt. George and his wife Helena had thirteen or fourteen children, at least two of which were sons and at least two of which were daughters.1   Of the daughters we know nothing.  One of their sons was named David.  But we have no records beyond the reference to him in his grandfather’s will.  There is also a reference in that will to Tobye.  At the time Tobye was the usual nickname for Theobald.  We mentioned earlier that we believe the reference to Tobye in David’s will was not to a son named Tobye but rather to a grandson.  The reference is ambiguously written but says that “said sums equally to be divided between his said son George and his two sons David and Tobye.”  If this were to be a division of sums equally between three, why not say “equally to be divided between his said sons George, David and Toby”?  In addition, if Tobye were a son it would be presumed that he was born somewhere in the period between the birth of the eldest son, George, 1622, and the year of birth of the youngest son, Andrew, who was born in 1636.  Were he born between 1622 and 1636, this would make Toby 90+ when he dies in Lisbon in 1724 and about 80 when he visited the Canary Islands in 1714.2  It is much more likely that he was born somewhere in the vicinity of 1650, the right age to be identified as the son of his father, George, who would have been 25-30 years old at that time.

The location of Theobald’s birth is unknown, as are the details of his life as a young man.  The earliest written reference to him, other than in his grandfather’s will, is of his marriage bonds of 19 October 1693.  On that date, “Toby Maigher of Bohercoila, Co. Limerick and Bridget Mowgill (Morgel) of Ballinaclogh, Co. Clare, widow”, are listed in the Diocese of Killaloe as taking bonds.2   He was sanctioned in 1698 after the Williamite War as an Irish Jacobite.  Also he is listed on 21 July 1698 as Capt. Theobald Macghee, being in Gralaghbegg, Mayo.3   I have been unable to locate such a townland in Mayo.  

Local legends of the town of Portmagee, on the Dingle Peninsula of County Kerry, say the town is named after Captain Theobald Magee who, after fighting on the side of King James II in the Williamite War, retired from the military life and settled in Kerry to take up the life of a smuggler in partnership with the O’Sullivans.  Some versions of the legend include Theobald as a pirate, but I suspect this particular claim meets more the needs of modern tourism promotion than those of history.  In reality, Lieutenant of Foot Tobias McGee brought about his retirement from a military life in an emphatic fashion, by deserting from the army of King James II on 24 Feb 1690 along with Capt. Patrick Burne, Lt. Wm. Cunney and Cadet William Musgrave.  They surrendered to the forces of Dutch General Henry Trajectivus Solm, a cousin of William of Orange.4   This would have been months before the Battle of the Boyne.  We believe this Theobald is the same man sanctioned as an “Irish Jacobite” in 1698.  Before we talk about his career as a smuggler, our last bit of evidence suggesting this Theobald was George’s son is that he had three male children.  One was named George, one was named David and one was named Theobald.  Following the Irish and Scottish naming pattern, the first son would be named after Theobald’s father, in this case George.  The origin of the name David is also clear, almost certainly from Theobald’s grandfather David.  

In the period from 1666 to 1699, the English Parliament passed legislation which struck at the heart of the Irish economy in order to protect English farmers and merchants from Irish competition.  The Navigation Acts forbade exports to any English colony except those loaded on English ships at English ports.  The Cattle Acts forbade imports of Irish cattle, sheep and pigs and the Woolen Act of 1699 limited the export of wool to anywhere at all other than to selected English ports.  The effects of these laws were to strangle Ireland’s two most important industries, raising livestock for export to England and the export of woolen goods.  In such an environment it was perhaps not inevitable that smuggling would flourish, but it is hardly surprising.  Those who have seen the rugged coast of south and western Ireland will readily recognize the advantages that are presented by the rough terrain and the numerous places in which to load and unload goods.  In addition, revenue officials would face significant difficulties enforcing such punitive and unpopular laws. 

In a periodical called “The Irish Builder”, the issue of April 15, 1895, we found a very informative discussion of the smuggling trade at the same time during which Theobald was so prominent.  The legislation passed by Parliament had succeeded in uniting all levels and classes of Irish society against its inequities.  Revenue officers who tried to enforce the law were subject to enormous social pressures, resistance, and sometimes the threat or reality of personal harm.  “All persons of all ranks in Ireland were principals or accomplices in a pursuit which, however pardonable in itself, could be carried on only by evasion, perjury and violence”.5  The bulk of the illicit trade took place between the west and southern coasts of Ireland and France and Spain.  In those countries Irish wool was worth five or six times the prices that could be obtained in England.  On the return voyages, French luxury goods such as wines seem to have been among the most common and profitable.  Those profits made the development of a vibrant smuggling trade irresistible.  Theobald is described in local Canary Island sources as a wine merchant and expert “fabricar relojes”, clock maker or repairman. 

In such an environment, Theobald’s taking up of a career of smuggling is not at all surprising; perhaps it is even admirable.  However, the woman he married, Bridget Morgel, formerly Bridget Crosby, widow of Thomas Morgel, was the daughter of Thomas Crosby of Ardfert, Member of the Patriot Parliament for County Kerry and his wife Bridget Tynte. 6 The Crosbys were one of the most prominent families in the county.  This marital connection to a notorious smuggler may have been embarrassing to the Crosbys.  But reservations about Theobald by his in-laws did not prevent him from achieving some success, nor did it prevent his wife from carrying on the business with their son David after Theobald’s death in Portugal in 1727.7  Theobald MacGhee’s will is Appendix III.

15. DESCENDANTS OF CAPT. THEOBALD MACGHEE and BRIDGET CROSBY
Theobald and Bridget had five children. 1  Son George we know nothing of other than he converted to the Church of Ireland in 1725. 2  Son Theobald also converted, on the same day in 1725.  Daughter Bridget converted at an unknown time.  We assume she must have converted as she married Francis Lauder, later Archdeacon of Ardfert.  Francis Lauder entered Trinity College Dublin 5 July 1697, at age 17, and was the son of George Lauder, clergyman. 3  Francis became Archdeacon of Ardfert in 1724 and served to 1738 after formerly having been Praecentor.  He died in 1765. 4  He was one of the executors named in the will of his father-in-law, Theobald MacGhee.  

The effects of legal and societal pressures on Catholics, exerted by the Penal Laws, are easy to detect.  Sons George and Theobald must have seen the great advantages to conversion.  Their prospects for inheritance would have been greatly enhanced once they had become Protestants.  Their conversion on the same day was very unlikely to have been coincidental.  You will remember that Theobald’s will included directions (a plea, really) to assure his children remained Catholic.  The effects of the Penal Laws on the lives of Irish Catholics are also clear, as Theobald was scarcely dead before the conversion of his children began.  At this distance in time it is impossible to know the reasons for conversion.  It is possible, of course, that these Macghees made an outward show of conforming while continuing to practice Catholicism in private.  It is likely the truth will never be known but it seems certain those decisions were not made without heartache.

16. THEOBALD MACGHEE AND ELLEN MCCARTHY
Theobald the younger was born about 1690.  He married Ellen McCarthy of Beginis.1  She was the daughter of Justin McCarthy.  We think that Beginis must have been the townland now named Beginish, in Dunquin Parish, Kerry. But it also may have been the Beginish in Caher Parish, also Kerry.  He died in September 1745 and is buried in the Church of Ireland Dingle Parish church cemetery in Dingle.2  After his death Ellen married Dominick Trant.3   Although a Catholic at the time of the wedding, Dominick appears on the Convert Rolls shortly thereafter, on 25 January 1748.4

Theobald and Ellen had one daughter, Mary, who married Michael Finucane, M.D.  Mary and Michael had two sons, Bryan Finucane, who appeared on the Convert Rolls for 1758, and Francis Finucane.  Bryan studied law at London’s Middle Temple and practiced law in Dublin for several years before he was appointed the third Chief Justice of Canada on 1 May 1778.  He died in Halifax on 3 Aug 1785 and is buried at St. Paul’s Church in Halifax.  Francis is listed among the English speaking students of medicine at Leyden, where he entered 24 December 1766, age 22.6  

17.  DAVID MACGHEE AND CATALINA BORGES OROPESA
David Macghee was one of two of Captain Theobald Macghee’s children who did not convert to the Church of Ireland, Martha being the other.  So far we have learned nothing of his early life but he must have been born about 1700.  Whether the harsh effects of the Penal Laws drove David abroad to seek his fortune we will probably never know.  But in 1720 he first appeared in the Canary Islands as the owner of his own ship and was soon established among the colony of Irish merchants on those islands.  David prospered and his trading relationships were said to include England, Spain, India, Hamburg and Holland.1

Fortunately for present-day researchers, many of David’s written communications with his attorney, Senor Colgan, survive.  What they and other records show is an enterprising and ambitious man, the sort of man who might well have flourished in Ireland, to his own benefit and the benefit of his country, but for misguided laws.  On 21 September 1723 he married Catalina Borges Oropesa, a member of a very prominent family. 2  David and Catalina had two daughters, Andrea McGhee Borges de Oropesa ( we have seen this as Isabella) and Antonia.  Andrea married Dionisio(Dennis) O’Daly in June 1762, another Irish merchant.  She died just two years later.  Their second daughter, Antonia McGhee, was born in Santa Cruz de La Palma about 1726.  David died in January 1761 and the death of Catalina is as yet unknown to us.3

Dionisio(Dennis) O’Daly was the son of Diego (James) O’Daly and Honora O’Daly of Co. Cork and the grandson of Timothy O’Daly and Elena McCarthy and John O’Daly and Elena O’Sullivan, also of Cork. 4 Dionisio O’Daly and Andrea McGhee Borges de Oropeso had one son of which we have any knowledge, David O’Daly.  David married Maria de las Nieves on 28 June 1807.  Maria died in 1844.  The date of David’s death is unknown to us.5 

18.  MARTHA MACGHEE
Martha Macghee was born about 1700 and about 1734 married Richard Hickson of Rathkeale, County Limerick.1  They had sons, Theobald and George, and a daughter Mary.2   Theobald Hickson went to the Canary Islands, where his uncle David Macghee had become a prosperous merchant.  On 14 June 1739 he married Ana Maria Stafford.  Senor Tena stated that he was from Letragh, in Ireland.3  This may be Letteragh, one of which is in Clare and another in Galway.  Of George we know nothing other than that he appears on the convert rolls for 1759.  Of Mary Hickson we know only that she married Crosbie Morgell in about 1771.4 

This concludes what we now know of the descendants of George McGhie.  The story it tells will be repeated as we go through David’s other sons and his daughter Elizabeth.  It is the story of a family caught up in historical events far larger than this one family.  These events illustrate in personal ways the effects that these events had upon individual lives.  They were at first Scottish Catholics who took part in an effort to pacify Ireland and convert it into a Protestant barrier against Catholic powers. Some were supporters of Catholic King James II in his losing effort to maintain his throne against the Protestant, William of Orange.  Some of them converted to Protestantism and were part of the Protestant Ascendancy.  Others did not convert and sought their fortunes elsewhere.  We do not know the personal details and family traumas which occurred concerning the choices they made, but it seems clear they must have been wrenching indeed.  

19.  CLAUDE and ANDREW MCGHEE
David McGhee had two sons not mentioned in his unwritten will of 1678.  Since that will constitutes such a great portion of our source of knowledge about David, Claude and Andrew would have escaped our attention altogether but for a familial commitment to education.  In the book, “Records of the Scots Colleges at Douai, Rome, Madrid, Valladolid and Ratisbon”, are listed George, discussed above, plus Claude and Andrew.1

In another reference to Scots being educated abroad, “The Sixth Scottish University: The Scots Colleges Abroad 1575-1799“ by Tom McInally, the author states that Claude, eleven years younger than his brother George, left university at Douai at age 15 to become a soldier in August, 1649.  He was too late to participate in the wars to which Cromwell and his New Model Army put an emphatic end between 1649-1653.  McInally also states that it is likely both George and Claude joined the French Army following their return from abroad, although we found no corroborating evidence. Claude married Grace Norton and died in August, 1668 in Moybracken, Co. Clare, a location we have not been able to identify.2   What became of Grace is unknown.  Andrew, listed as the brother of George and Claude, entered university in Rome and when he left in 1655 he undertook missionary work in Scotland as a Jesuit.  On p. 191 McInally states that he died in December, 1690, while serving the Church in Rome.  Rev. Gordon states that Andrew was the rector of the Scots College in Rome when he died after many years of service.(3)

As in other aspects of the lives of these McGhees, the fact that George and his two brothers Claude and Andrew were educated abroad illustrates the human side of historical conditions of the time.  McInally points out that for two centuries it was illegal to receive a Catholic education in Scotland.  As a consequence, those who desired such an education could pursue it at one of the five universities in Scotland.  Rather they had to attend one of the four Catholic universities abroad, at Douai, Rome, Paris and Madrid.  


20.  ELIZABETH MACGHEE AND ALEXANDER BROWNE
In his 1678 will David mentions a son-in-law, Alexander Browne, who was married to David’s unnamed daughter.  Although the name Browne is certainly a familiar one within this Macghee family, we know nothing further of Alexander and Elizabeth beyond the statement in the will that they had a daughter, Mary Browne, who was married to John Rea.  We believe they also had a son, Valentine, about whom we know nothing other than that he, too, was educated abroad at Paris and Douai.  Listed among the students in the Records of Scots Colleges at Douai, is Valentinus Browne, a Scottish Catholic born in Tipperary in 1658 to Alex. Bruno and Elizabetha Maghie.1  These entries give us the name of David’s daughter.  Alexander Browne is possibly the man of that name mentioned in the Vestry Minutes for Donagheady Parish for 16 April 1723.2  John Rea is possibly the man of that name listed on the Subsidy Rolls for 1664 and 1666, County Tyrone.  He owed two pounds both years.3  If I have correctly identified Elizabeth and Alexander, they were part of what appears to have been a forced familial exodus to the south in response to the Cromwellian pressures I describe in the next section.  It appears that not only did David leave Tyrone, but that his sons John and James and his daughter Elizabeth Browne were also displaced. 

21.   JOHN MACGHEE
John Macghee is mentioned only briefly in his father’s will, which states that he is to be left thirty pounds.  Beyond this the only references to John are indirect.  We do not know the name of his wife.  Some things do seem clear, however, as have been suggested to us by records associated with Cromwell’s attempts to permanently pacify Ireland following the uprising of 1641.  
The best description I have found regarding Cromwell’s plans, for what came to be known as the Cromwellian settlement, is found in the book “The Catholics of Ulster, A History” by Marianne Elliott.  I will rely heavily upon her work in the following paragraphs.  Under the plan, those who had participated in the first stages of the rebellion, or had participated in the killing of civilians, or who failed to surrender within 28 days, were exempt from pardon.  All other Catholic landowners would be subject to partial forfeiture, depending on the extent of their delinquency.  Further, they were required to move across the Shannon River into Connacht (counties Galway, Leitrim, Mayo, Roscommon and Sligo) or Co. Clare.  There was to be no land allocated to soldiers or adventurers in Clare.  Only “innocent papists” were to be resettled there  The famous saying attributed to Cromwell that Catholic landowners must move to “Hell or Connacht” provides a succinct summary of the policy.  Whether or not Cromwell actually said those words, the sentiments expressed linger still in his legacy in Ireland.  

The program got underway in 1654 and was immediately beset by problems and confusion.  By 1659 it had been abandoned.  There were no government structures with the resources to handle a program of that scale and Elliott states that the level of actual confiscations in Tyrone was as low as 4%.  Even at that low level, and fortunately for we genealogists who have followed, John Macghee and his family were caught up in Cromwell’s program.  We do know he went to Co. Clare, which would indicate he was not known to be an active participant in hostilities, but was instead an “innocent papist”.

On 15 March 1655 Col. Henry Ingoldesby leased to John Macghee, gent, of Knockbeach, Co. Clare, the towns , hamlets and lands of Knockbeach (probably what is now called Knockbeha, Feakle Parish) and Clouneskeagh (137acres), three cartrons of Tullyglasse, Clonloghan Parish (75 acres), Killines and that part of Lissinrinkea surveyed with it by Capt Webb (135a) and Killulla, Clonloghan Parish (46 acres) in the barony of Bunratty, Co. Clare.  The lease was for 99 years or the lives of the said John, his unnamed first wife, and James Macghee his brother.  The rent was three shillings per acre, with a provision for paying proportionately more if the three cartrons of Tullyglasse were found, on further survey, to contain more than 75 acres.  The tenant was to pay all taxes and country charges, build within seven years a decent and sufficient house after the English manner, quick set within 15 years the fences and enclosures, make within seven years an orchard of 300 trees, and to plant every ten years 300 ash, oak, birch, or other suitable trees.  Finally, they were not to alienate the land to any of the former proprietors or their heirs without the landlord’s consent.1  Henry Ingoldesby was the son of Elizabeth Cromwell, niece of Oliver Cromwell.  Just over a year later, in July of 1656, John resigned the lease in favor of his father and mother, David and Catherine Magee.2   It seems very unlikely that John and James were descendants of anyone else other than the David MacGhee and Catherine Browne discussed above.  Based upon this I believe that John’s parents also had chosen to or had been forced to leave Strabane.  This would explain the long gap in records of David’s activities in Tyrone during the years after the Great Rebellion.  One of the witnesses to this lease was Nicholas Harrold, who appears in King James’ Army List with John’s brother, James, and is likely the man of that name, listed as an apothecary, who appears on the same page of Pender’s 1659 census with three other Magees, sons of the John we have just discussed. 3

Pender’s Census of 1659, taken near or at the end of the program, after the dust had settled and a reckoning could reasonably be made, includes three Magees, all in Tomgreany Parish, which adjoins Feakle Parish.  The three were George Magee, John Magee and David Magee, all gents.  The townships involved in George Magee’s holdings were not specified.  John Magee held the township of Ballyvanane and David Magee held Scariff.  They were listed as tituladoes, meaning they were the principal names in their townships.  In George Magee’s township there were 55 people, all Irish.  In John Magee’s township there were 44, all Irish.  And in David Magee’s township there were only 11 people, all Irish.  We have no way of determining how many family members accompanied these Magees.  

These Magees are listed on page 171 of the Census and it is interesting to review the others on the same page.  The other names are FitzWilliam, Marnell, Poore, Prendergast, Roch, Butler, Barrett, O’Crowley, O’Cullane, Hiffernane, O’Driscoll, White, Harrold, Bennish and Shortall.  According to MacLysaght, of these names, only one, Magee, would be clearly associated with Ulster.  All of the others, with the possible exception of White, were connected to southern counties and many of them were of old Anglo-Irish families.4  The name Harrold is another possible exception, as McLysaght associates that name with Dublin as well as Limerick.   So the Magees in this group very likely came from elsewhere, almost certainly Ulster, and I propose that John Magee was the son of David.  Further circumstantial evidence is found in the names of his sons, John, David and George.  David, who died in 1678, would have been John’s father.  George would have been his oldest brother.  

John must have been born about 1635.  The name of his wife remains unknown to us but she was obviously alive when the lease for land in Feakle Parish was finalized in 1655.  He had sons John Jr, David and George, mentioned above.  Of John Jr. and George we know nothing more other than remembering that they were lessees mentioned in Pender’s Census of 1659.  It is possible that John Jr. is the John Magee called upon to furnish his best horses for the army of King James in 16905, the man of that name who was a witness to a mortgage deed in Lecarrow, Tulla Parish in 16846, and the man mentioned in the will of James Roch of Killgobbane as leasing Lassana and Killgobane, Clooney Parish.7  He still held this lease in 1700.8  Mentioned in the lease are two members of the Harrold family, David and Ellin.

22.    MAJOR DAVID MACGHEE AND CATHERINE ELMORE
Major David MacGhee, son of John MacGhee, was born about 1660.  He married Catherine Elmore 23 December 1695.1  In a petition to the Court of Claims about 1700, David Macghee, gent, of Carrogan (now Carrahan, Clooney Parish), and Catherine his wife , state that Daniel Viscount Clare, being owner of the townlands of Lissana and of Feenagh alias Ballyveghan, parish of Clooney, did by lease of June 1676 demise them to John MacGhee, for his life and for the lives of his sons David, John junior, and George, at the yearly rent of ten pounds, ten shillings.  The lease was witnessed by Henry Ivers, Donogh  O’Brien and George Creagh.2  In 1690 John owed one year’s rent for the Lissana property and the plowland of Killgobbana (now Kilgobben).3  In 1695 the lands were conveyed by John to David on the occasion of his marriage.  The Court of Claims was established to adjudicate claims against property of those whose lands were forfeited to the crown for their support of James II against William III.  A note found in the Inchiquin Papers is that on 13 April 1693 John Macghee assigned his interest in the property to Sir Donough O’Brien as security for payment of 84 pounds.  O’Brien’s first wife was Lucia Hamilton, a daughter of Sir George Hamilton, interestingly the original benefactor of this David’s grandfather in Tyrone.4  George was also a Jacobite, appointed by King James II as High Sheriff of Clare during the Williamite War.5

The property David and Catherine leased almost certainly contained that which is variously referred to as Clossagh House, Classagh House or Carraghan House, Lissana Townland, Clooney Parish.  It was likely in the possession of the Macghees until Arthur Gethin Creagh of Ballyandrew, Cork, inherited the property from his mother, Mary, the only daughter of Jack McGhee of Carrahan and his wife Bridget Miller.  Burke’s refers to Jack as James McGhee esq.  Mary married her cousin Arthur Gethin Creagh, esq. of Ballyandrew, Doneraile Parish, Cork in 1827.6   Their son Arthur Gethin Creagh, J.P. was born in 1830 and died after 1880. 7 8  It is not known to me to whom the property presently belongs.  But this does seem to represent an extended period of time, from about 1705 when David died until 1827, when Mary McGhee married Arthur Gethin Creagh Sr, during which the property passed through several generations of McGhees about whom we know nothing.  Mary McGhee and Arthur Gethin Creagh had two sons.  The eldest son was John Bagwell Creagh.  He was born 31 August 1828 at Ballyellis, Mallow Parish, Cork.  Later, he was a surgeon to the West Cork Artillery Militia and died at Terenure, Rathfarnham Parish, Dublin, 8 October 1906.  He is buried in Mount Jerome Cemetery, Harold’s Cross, Dublin.9  This seems to represent a potentially fruitful area of research.  Another interesting possibility about Carrahan is the presence of Daniel Mcghee.  In 1702, Daniel submitted a will showing that he lived in Carrahan.10  Was he possibly the Daniel Magee to whom William Roulston makes mention as having been both rector and schoolmaster in Strabane in 1680?11

We do not know anything about David McGhee’s activities during the Williamite wars, except that he continued the family tradition of being a Jacobite, therefore being on the losing side.  He is on a list of Irish Jacobites as Major David Magee, Caraghan, Co. Clare, 13 Nov 1694.12  We do not know what, if any, consequences there were for David, as it seems clear he retained control over Carrahan.   

The remaining detail regarding David is that he must have died before 1707.  Catherine Magie, widow of David Magie, late of Carraghan, Co. Clare, and William Ryan, gent of Ballymackeogh, Tipperary, filed marriage license bonds on 25 September 1707.13

23.  DESCENDANTS OF JAMES MACGHEE
In his 1678 will, David mentions his son James.  He directs that James receive all his tenements in and about Strabane that were bound over to James and his wife, Marianna Leighton.  He also left him a bond of 65 pounds which was owed to him by James Hamilton of Eliston.  He also states that he gives to his wife the house wherein she dwells and furnishings thereof during her life and then to his said son James.  We do not know when James was born but as his brother John listed him as one of three lives on a lease for land in Co. Clare, we assume he was younger than John.  Burke’s refers to him as James Maghee, Esq., M.D. and that he served in King James’ army, although we have found no records to support a medical education or practice.1  In 1687 he received a commission as an ensign2.  Considering the family history of support for the Stuarts, military service in support of James II would not be surprising.  However, in 1687, he would have been in his mid to late 50s, a seemingly late date for receiving a commission into the military.

The first documents regarding a James McGie involve examinations of James McGie and an Anstale Corven, taken before Sir Thos. Phillips on 26 April 1615.3  The next mention of the name is from 26 Mar 1621 in which James Magee, Yeoman, was a member of an inquisition taken in Londonderry regarding salmon fishing.4   I doubt either one of these men are the same James mentioned in David’s will but they are the earliest records we found mentioning a person of this name.  

The earliest record containing clear reference to James, son of David, is from 15 March 1655 when he is listed as one of three lives on the lease held by his brother John in Feakle Parish, Co. Clare.5  There is no conclusive evidence as to his date of birth but it must have been between 1630-1635.   In a deed of February 1725 for property in Killrush Parish, Co. Clare, mention is made to the property that was formerly leased by James Maghee, deceased. So I have annotated his date of death as before 1725.6

His father, David, had left James property in Strabane, including the house in which his mother lived.  In 1676, James was a witness to two deeds involving James Wilson and John Anderson.  In 1680 he was executor of the will of John Browne Sr, his maternal grandfather.7  On 15 Nov 1680, the Earl of Abercorn granted lands to James in Liskylymigin (probably now Lisky, Camus Parish) for Ł20 rent. On 3 Jan 1685 James sold this lease to Randall Brice.8

On 8 August 1688, King James II appointed James Magee as one of 23 burgesses of the Corporation of Strabane.  A burgess is a life appointment and James was referred to as a settler.  We have found no evidence that these burgesses actually carried out any business as this was part of the futile efforts of King James to reclaim his throne.  Nevertheless, it does illustrate another example of the familial devotion to the Jacobite cause.  In 1692, James leased land to William Blathford of Co. Cavan9 and an inquisition of 16 August 1693 found that James McGee was among those having holdings in Strabane.10

I want to pause now to discuss some records which illustrate the pleasures and frustrations of Irish records of the 17th and 18th centuries.  In PRONI there are many microfilm reels of registers of parish churches and these can sometimes provide the sole mention in writing of a person’s life and death.  They can also be frustrating since they are sadly incomplete.  Among those records is MIC 1/35/1, the Parish Register for the Donagheady Church of Ireland, located in the townland of Bunowen.  This church is now a ruin but it sits in a beautiful location atop a hill and is well worth a visit.  

The types of records typically found in parish registers would include baptisms, marriages, burials and vestry minutes.  But sometimes there are financial accounts, records of work done on the church, those receiving charity, those appointed to maintain the roads, and confirmation lists.  These records can be absolutely vital to the efforts of the genealogist to track down names and dates, but they can also provide some insight into the lives of the parishioners.  A fine example is from the Donagheady vestry records for 1753, when Reverend Bracegirdle (really, that was his name) complained in the minutes, “The reason so few burials are entered is, an indecent custom of interring without sending to the Minister to attend.  That the papists should, always, or the Presbyterians, generally, omit it, is not to be wondered; but it is astonishing that those, who are of the Established Church, should choose to bury their deceased friends like dogs.”  Later notes make it clear that those relatives did this to avoid paying the minister.  Another, less savory, example is the frequent mention in vestry minutes of the need to purchase rat poison to be used in the rat-infested graveyard.  A final example of the singular value of church records is that they touch a wider swath of society, including the poor.  In contrast, most other surviving records are of the well off.  The records of those receiving charity from the church may be the only ones that constitute a person’s or a family’s only surviving records.  Thomas McGhee, for example, in a record of 7 June 1735, was on the list of poor receiving donations.  And there were several other records of the unfortunate Thomas receiving similar such payments.   It is likely that these may be the sole records of Thomas, the sole written marks of his life.  He may or may not have left family members.  I sympathize with the plight of those attempting to find Thomas and the tens of thousands like him from the records which survive.

The Donagheady Parish records, although invaluable to us, are incomplete.  Baptisms are recorded from 1697 onward, but there are no records from 1724-1752, from 1766 to 1817 and from 1820 to 1825.  For marriages there are no records from 1724 to 1753 nor from 1765 to 1825.  For burials there are no records from 1727 to 1753 and from 1758 to 1825.  For us, the years which are missing, from the mid 1720s to the mid 1750s, are crucial.  Lest I sound ungrateful, I add that these records are among the oldest in all of Ireland and among the most complete of all those which have survived to this day and that without them our progress would have been very much limited. 

In April of 1697 we find James McGee listed as a church warden of the Donagheady Parish Church of Ireland.11   James had followed the path of his father in converting to the established church, in contrast to the paths taken by his brothers George, John, Claude and Andrew.  On 7 February 1722, a James McGee of a townland I could not read, was buried.12 In the will of his father David it states that James was married to Marianna Leighton, but we do not know when nor do we know anything else about Marianna.  No will survives.  James had only one child of whom we have substantial knowledge, George MacGhee.  I will speculate later that there was one other son, also named Robert, but for the moment let us talk about George MacGhee, esq., apothecary. 

24.   GEORGE MACGHEE, ESQ. AND REBECCA HAMILTON
Of all the McGees mentioned in this paper George esq. is the one about whom we know the most.  There are two reasons for this.  First, George left a will which has been preserved.  In the will there is a wealth of detail about his family and his business dealings.  Second, George was a very prominent citizen of Strabane and his business and civic dealings resulted in an unusually comprehensive written record.  George’s will was signed 25 October 1741 and states he was at that time in his 69th year, making his year of birth about 1672. (APPENDIX II)  

Other than the year in which George was born we know practically nothing of his early years.  We presume that he was born in Strabane but do not know that for certain.  From his occupation as an apothecary/surgeon, his business dealings, and the writing skills evident in the documents which survive, it is clear he received a good (but probably not a university) education.  We do not know where that took place.  In contrast to today, apothecaries and surgeons would ordinarily learn their trades by means of apprenticeship rather than by means of university training.  Until 1747 there was an enforced union of apothecaries, surgeons, barbers and periwig makers into the Dublin Guild of Barber Surgeons.  Wherever and by what means George was educated, he was clearly a worldly and very influential man in early 18th century Strabane. 

The earliest date we found information about George was in his petition to the Court of Claims in 1700.1  In that claim he refers to a house and garden in Strabane which was secured by a lease in 1675 and purchased in 1697.  The lease in 1675 would have occurred when George was about three and must have been made by his father James, followed by a purchase in 1697.  It was around the same time that George married Rebecca Hamilton, daughter of Patrick Hamilton, Jr., a prominent merchant in Strabane.  It is interesting to note that by this time there was a large enough group of prosperous merchants in and about Strabane to make it possible for members of that group to secure spouses without looking elsewhere.  One of Rebecca’s brothers, Patrick, was later Lord Mayor of Dublin in 1760/61.2  Rebecca’s sister, Elizabeth, married John Spottswood.  It is ironic to note that, as we will see later, the Spottswoods would be major beneficiaries of George’s estate and were very possibly descendants of the man so prominently involved in the persecution of Gilbert Broune, last abbot of Sweetheart Abbey.  

Beginning about 1700 and continuing until the mid-1730s, there are numerous mentions of George in surviving records.  In 1702 he sold land in Strabane. 3 In 1703 George is mentioned in a diary kept by the Reverend William Homes.  In the diary entry for 17 August 1703 it records that Capt. John Lesly of Tirkernehan died.  Tirkernehan is a townland in Donagheady Parish.  As it gives a good view of the medical practices of the time I will quote from Reverend Homes’s diary, leaving the spelling and punctuation as found.  “When he arose in the morning he found himself much indisposed; which occasioned his lying down again upon a bed, and after he had lyen some time, he found himselfe much better, and therefore resolved to come to Strabane, having business with Mr. King. After the Burgesses of Strabane had chosen two men to serve in the ensuing Parliament, they went to dinner and he and several others with them.  At dinner he both ate and drank very sparingly, and after dinner he walked into the kitchen, and complained much of a pain in his stomach, which did increase upon him, and therefore was advised to walk out to the backside and take the aire; and having some business with one Mr. Ro. Walker, Fall Rivere, he walked out with him and stayed but a little while in the back side till he found his distemper grew upon him apace; therefore was advised to betake himself to some quiet room in the house, which he did walking up a paire of stairs on  his own feet but at the head of the stairs he found himselfe to faint away, and  called for Mr. Hart, Apothecary, but in the mean time he fainted.  Upon this Mr. Hart came to him, to whom he said after a little reviving, that he was gone.  Mr. Hart immediately opened a vain in his arm, which gave him some ease, upon which he went thrice to stool, but his fainting returned upon him.  Mr. Hart ran to his shop to prepare a cordial for him, and before he came again he fainted away; upon which Mr. Maghee and the Apothecary being in the room, essayed to take some blood out of the other arm, but he bled not.  They tried to cause him to vomit, but could not, he cryed out, saying Lord have mercy upon me.  Dr. Hamilton being in the room kneeled down and prayed very earnestly, and immediately he expired.”

Only two days later, 19 August 1703, a man named Denis or Divin, a mason, died suddenly in Strabane and George was involved again.  I quote. “The manner of his death was as followeth.  He was to Capt. Lesly’s funeral, where he drank only three glasses of beer and one of brandy, after which he went to his worke being a mason and doing somewhat for George Maghee, after he had finished his worke, he and the rest of the men that worked with him went to Alex. Roxbrough’s to settle accounts, having lately built a back house for John Gamble Esq. where he called for a quart of beer, and having lighted his pipe, he presently sett about settling accounts with his fellow laborers and while he was writing the pen fell out of his hand upon which he rose up and went to the door, as if he had been going to make water and having stayed a very little space, he returned to his company, and as he was coming towards his sete, the pipe fell out of his mouth and with some difficulty he got to a sete, and fainted away; upon which they called for George Maghee, who let him bleed; upon which he revived a little, but presently his distemper returned upon him with such violence, that he died instantly without speaking one word to anybody in complaining of anything.  They that were about him, threw much water upon him but to no purpose.”4   

These incidents shed light on medical practices of the day and their limitations.  Treating what seems to have been heart attacks or strokes with bleeding seems bizarre to us now but must have been commonplace mid-18th century.

In 1712 George sold land to John Love, Hugh Brown, John Wilson, David Bradley and Andrew Carson for a Presbyterian Meeting House in Strabane. 5   In 1728 he leased land in Kirryduff, (probably that townland now called Creeduff), Termonomongan Parish, from Oliver Kyle.6  In 1728 he was High Sheriff of Tyrone.  In 1734 he owned land in Lisky, Camus Juxta-Mourne Parish. 7  In his will of 1741 he mentions holdings in Morenbeg, Urney Parish, Carryduff, which I have been unable to identify but which is probably another reference to Kirryduff, a mortgage he held in Enishon,(Enishowan) Donegal, and land containing a quarry in Dergalt, Camus Parish.8  George’s local stature is also reflected in his long tenure as a Burgess of Strabane.  His tenure as a Burgess and Justice of the Peace ended in 1733 with an acrimonious and prolonged dispute over his support for the interests of the Abercorns.9
George was referred to as Esquire, which was generally a title of respect to those of higher social standing, above gentlemen but below knight.  In general, Esquire would not have been used to refer to an apothecary but George may have been given this appellation as a result of his family connections, his evident wealth and his long service as a burgess.  Obviously, George was a successful businessman and his success could be seen in his wealth.  In 1730 he was one of only 49 men in Tyrone believed to have incomes of Ł100 per year.10  In records of Trinity College Dublin regarding his two sons, Patrick and George, who were educated at Trinity, he is referred to as Armiger, one who was entitled to a coat of arms, although no description nor record of such a coat of arms had been discovered until quite recently. The newest and youngest member of the small group involved in this research is Fergus McGhee, now a student at Oxford.  In a remarkable discovery, Fergus unearthed an article from the April 30, 1953 edition of the Country Life magazine.  In the article is described a cane which must have been one passed down through generations of the McGees of which I write.  The cane had the names of John Macghee from Balm Macghee in Scotland and then the names of David Macghee 1628, Jacob (James) Macghee 1670 and George Macghee 1714.  On the cane is an engraved coat of arms with three leopard’s heads.  Not only does this provide confirmation of the line of succession from John to George it also provides a coat of arms just as the one on John’s gravestone.  
 
In his will, George asks to be buried in the Old Leckpatrick Cemetery, Artigarvan, with his ancestors. When he died 29 November 1743, he was buried near the grave of John, his great- grandfather.  We do not know where his wife Rebecca was buried after her death in Dublin in 1767.11
25.   THE WILL OF GEORGE MACGHEE
Before moving on to discuss the children of George Macghee, I think it would be fruitful to look at his will, a remarkable document which tells us a lot about the man.  For those who would like to have a personal look it is LPC/1325 at PRONI.  My transcription is Appendix II.  

If you look up George Macghee’s original will in PRONI, the first thing that you notice is that, although a beautiful document with writing full of character and flourishes, it is hard to read!  So I have done my best to transcribe it accurately. Please remember that the transcription is from a 270-year-old document.  In places it was difficult to read while in other places it was impossible.  Where it was impossible to read I have left dashes.  Where the spelling or meaning was unclear, I have indicated my confusion by the use of brackets and question marks. Although I have left the spelling of names as George wrote them, I have adopted modern spelling for the rest unless it detracts from the flavor or sense of the will.  You will notice that the grammatical customs of the day did not follow those of today regarding run-on sentences and punctuation.  Unless necessary to aid modern eyes I have left the long sentences, shortening only those I felt were necessary to aid understanding.
  
Many wills are rather dry lists of possessions, property, money, and directions as to their disposal, leaving the reader with knowledge of the accumulations of a lifetime but not much understanding of the author. This will tells us a lot about George Macghee.  Even more, it emphasizes one of the key points of attempting Irish genealogy.  The researcher must not fixate on the spelling of names.  In this will, written in George’s own hand, he spells his wife’s name three different ways:  Rebecca, Reabacca and Rebeccah.  This is a fine example of the idiosyncratic nature of spelling in the 18th century.

George refers to his religion as “… the true protestant religion, the Church of England”.  The interesting thing about this is that he does not refer to it as the Church of Ireland.  It is also interesting because, unlike so many Scots and descendants of Scottish settlers in Ulster, he was not Presbyterian.  In his will George mentions his wife Rebeccah, his son Reverend George, son Patrick (deceased), and daughter Catherine. Let us talk of them each in turn.  

26.  PATRICK MACGHEE AND HIS SON JOHN
I am uncertain as to the sequence of the births of George and Rebecca ’s children.  But I do know that according to records of Trinity College Dublin, Patrick was the eldest son and entered Trinity on 6 June, 1716, aged 16.1  The records go on to state that he was born in Strabane and educated by Mr. Valentine.  Further, we know that he studied medicine at the University of Rheims, after studying medicine at the University of Leyden in 1724.2   At that time the University of Leyden was recognized as one of the best in the world and had among its faculty probably the most famous medical educator of his day, Herman Boerhave.  It was quite prestigious to have studied under Boerhave and those who had done so went on to become known as Boerhave’s Men.  It is interesting to note that some forty years later, a man who was a cousin of Patrick’s, Francis Finucane, also attended Leyden.  Francis was said to be from Ennis and was the son of Mary MacGhee and Michael Finucane, M.D.3  Mary was the daughter of Theobald McGee Jr. and Ellen McCarthy. 

After his graduation from Leyden we know that Patrick participated in some business deals with his father George.  In one he was referred to as Dr. Patrick McGhee 4. In 1732 he was given the right to practice as a Freeman of Londonderry5.  And from his father’s will we know that he had an illegitimate son named John.  We do not know the name of his son John’s mother nor do we know when he was born or what became of him after 1741 when he received prominent attention in his grandfather’s will.  The last mention of Patrick we found was in April 1738 in which George gave or leased to Patrick the townland of Lisky in Camus Parish.6  We do not know where Patrick is buried but in the Will Index to the Prerogative Court, it states that Patrick Macghee, M.D. of Strabane, had a will dated in 1740. 7 

Patrick’s son John, although illegitimate, was obviously not unloved by his grandfather, who spoke of John in his will with clear concern, stating the obvious but unexpected truth that the boy was not at fault in this matter.  He had clear intentions that John should be raised as a scholar and gentleman, laid out a plan to assure his education, selected a tutor, gave him a book of knowledge he saw as assuring professional success and then left a plan to make all those things happen.  It is hard to know over such a separation of centuries but these measures seem unusually compassionate in a man who gives the appearance of being a hard-headed businessman.  John disappears from our view after the date of the will.  We have no idea what became of him and this disappearance is one of the most intriguing mysteries of this family.

27.   CHURCH OF IRELAND CLERGY
Beginning with Rev. George Macghee, discussed in the following paragraphs, there follows a group of Macghee Church of Ireland clergymen spanning several generations.  Before we look at these men in detail I think it interesting to discuss the nature and membership of 18th Century Church of Ireland Clergy. 

The clergy of the Church of Ireland early in the 18th century resembled members of an hereditary caste.  Membership was largely composed of descendants of the well-to-do, often second sons with no chances of substantial inheritances.   These men were raised by members of the ascendancy and their positions in the Church allowed them to be called gentlemen.  Early on, their families imbued in them the notions that it was their duty to improve and civilize the Catholic Irish by means of the church and government.  Most were, at this time, educated at Trinity College Dublin.  In Bowen’s words, such a young man would be “  …there indoctrinated with those high Protestant principles with which he has before been inoculated.  He is, of course, the son of an Irish Protestant gentleman, and has therefore sucked them in with his mother’s milk.  He goes before his Protestant bishop and takes his orders with a corps of other young men exactly similarly circumstanced.  And thus he has never had given to him an opportunity of rubbing his own ideas against those of men who have been educated with different proclivities.  He has never lived at college either with Roman Catholics or with Presbyterians, or with Protestants of a sort different from his sort.  In his cradle, at his father’s table, at school, at the university, in all the lessons he has learned, in all the games he has played, in his converse with his sisters, in his first soft, faint whisperings with his sister’s friends, in his loud unreserved talking with his closest companions, the same two ideas, cheek by jowl, have ever been present to him—the state ascendancy of his own church, and the numerical superiority of another church antagonistic to his own.“1

As many did not become churchmen in response to a calling but rather were placed in Trinity and then the Church out of necessity or convenience, it is not surprising to read that so many were interested principally in their own material, societal and professional advancement.  This is not to say that the clergy were all or even mostly corrupt careerists.  Indeed, many did much to advance temporal and spiritual conditions in their parishes.  But a distressing number seem to have been motivated by avarice and the desire for social advancement.  They were, naturally enough, not held in high regard by the Catholic majority; indeed it would seem bizarre to find it otherwise.  This was given a sharper edge by the despised tithe system which required all to pay.  From the revenues collected, approximately 15% of the population (Protestants) benefitted.  The remaining 85%, most of whom were Catholic, did not attend that church, could not send their children to church schools and were put in the position of supporting a religious system they considered heretical.

28.   REVEREND GEORGE MACGHEE AND ANN HAMILTON
As had his elder brother Patrick, George MacGhee attended Trinity College Dublin, which he entered 22 August 1724, aged 17.  He earned his B.A. in 1729 and his M.A. in 1739. 1 He was educated by the same man who had educated Patrick, Dr. Valentine or Ballentine.  It is from these records that we learned that George and Patrick’s father George was referred to as Armiger, or one who is entitled to use a coat of arms.  

J.B. Leslie states that from 1732 to 1762 George was Curate of Templemore Parish in Co. Londonderry.  From 1754 to 1764, he was Curate of Burt parish in Donegal.2  From 1765 until his death in 1769 he was Rector of Christ Church in Strabane.3  Sometime during this period he married his cousin, Ann Hamilton, the daughter of his predecessor at Christ Church, Rev. William Hamilton.4

Rev. George’s business dealings were not as extensive as those of his father and in fact the bulk of his father’s fortune had been settled on Rev. George’s sister Catherine, who married Bartholomew Harrold.  In this way he fits the pattern of a younger son, without a large inheritance, going into Trinity College and then beginning a long career with the Church of Ireland.  In 1740 he leased land in Holy Well near Strabane to John Dalley, a weaver.  Holy Well was reported to be above Strabane.5  In 1747 he leased land to James Dunlap of Strabane.6  In 1751, James Hamilton, manager for the Abercorns, mentioned that George McGhee was going to turn his holdings in the townland of Lisky, Camus Juxta-Mourne Parish, into a freehold.7  This was probably the same land that George esq. had leased or given to Rev. George’s older brother Patrick, M.D.  In 1752 he was a witness to a will.8  In 1755 he was listed as a tenant in Strabane.9  In the minutes of the parish church of Donagheady there is an interesting note from Tuesday morning, 14 February 1764.  The note is from Mr. Macghee Senior, whom I take to be Rev. George.  It expresses compliments to Mr. Bracegirdle.  Mr. Macghee says that he is extremely welcome to do any duty in his church.  It is unclear whether Mr. Macghee is volunteering to do work in Donagheady or inviting Bracegirdle to work in Macghee’s church in Strabane. 10 

In October 1747 Rev. George is mentioned as being ill in Dublin and in 1765 James Hamilton informed Lord Abercorn that Mr. McGhee had been in Bath for some time because he had had an attack of palsy.11  In 1769 Hamilton informed Lord Abercorn that Rev. George had died and that his brother-in-law, Adam Harvey, would be getting the parish.12  Adam Harvey was married to Jane Hamilton, sister to George’s wife Ann. 

There was a bitter legal dispute between Lord Abercorn and Rev. George, at least the second dispute between the two families.  In 1767, Abercorn wrote to an attorney named Nelson that Mr. McGhee was in a state of health from which there was no prospect of recovery, as he was paralytic.  This, in combination with the above mentioned attack of palsy, could well indicate that the disease affecting Rev. McGhee was Parkinson’s Disease.  Nevertheless, Abercorn stated he was determined to get his money and knew McGhee had real estate holdings.13  In 1770, the year after George’s death, James Hamilton informed Abercorn that Mrs. McGhee was somewhere in Fermanagh but that he (Hamilton) had the subpoena served at her lodgings in Strabane.14  In 1776 Ann wrote a touching letter to Abercorn regarding his demand for payment of a debt left by her husband.  She was living in Dublin.  Ann said that she was getting only 70 pounds per year as a marriage settlement and that her husband’s real fortune had been settled on George’s sister and her children.  She said her husband had died after a long, painful illness of six years and that she could not afford to pay his debt.  She went on to say that she was a poor unfortunate widow worn out with distresses of various kinds and referred Lord Abercorn to his agent James Hamilton as someone who could confirm her story.15  We do not know the outcome of this plea.  We do know that George McGhee Esq. had left the bulk of his fortune to his daughter Catherine and will speak of this when we come to her later in this paper.  We do not know when Ann died or where she is buried. 

In speaking of the children of Reverend George McGhee, I acknowledge there will be more than the usual amount of speculation.  However, if there are errors I welcome correction.   I believe Reverend McGhee had at least one son, Reverend William McGhee. 

29.  REVEREND WILLIAM W. MCGHEE  
 William McGhee entered Trinity College Dublin 18 January 1759. His age upon entry is not recorded.  He had been educated by Rev. Mr. McGhee, probably his father, whom I speculate was Rev. George McGhee. 1He was Curate of Leckpatrick from 1768-1777 and on 9 October 1778 he was reported to have married Mrs. Murray at Strabane.2  We know nothing of widow Murray.  He was Curate at Bodoney Upper sometime after 1777 and was listed as Rector in 1796.3  In 1814 Rev. William W. McGhee (this is the first known use of a middle initial in the family) gave an interesting description of the quality of life in Bodoney Upper parish at the time.  “There is neither poverty nor riches, none that arrogate to themselves pre-eminence, the quality is uncommon.  The Priest and myself are addressed as gentlemen, among the rest it is Tom and Dick.  Their general food-oatbread, potatoes, milk and butter.  They make a decent appearance on Sundays, mostly clothed in cloths of their own manufacture.  Their favourite colour is blue.  The girls wear cottons, etc. and imitate the fashions.  Four fairs are held in the year in Sperrin, the eastern extremity of the Parish, where there is but one house (i.e. Church of Ireland).  There are no other fairs.  English and Irish are spoken in common by Protestants and Catholics.  We all get on well together, no party business.” 4   A seemingly bucolic existence.  He died 4 June 1810.

30.   REVEREND JAMES MCGHEE AND MISS BLACKALL
I think Reverend James McGhee was Reverend William McGhee’s  son.  James McGhee was born in Tyrone in 1756 and entered Trinity on 9 July 1774, age 18. 1 Although his father is not listed, it was noted that James was the son of a cleric.  He had been educated by Dr. John Lamy, possibly the Dr. John Lamy who was a warden in St. Eunan’s C of I, Raphoe Parish in 1746 2 and whose will was dated 1773.3  Dr. Lamy  was Master of the Raphoe Royal School and was succeeded in this position in 1771 by his son John.4  It is interesting to note that the school still exists.  James McGhee was Curate of Templemore, Derry, from 1779-1783.5   He was Curate of Faughanvale, in Derry, in 1785.6   On 25 February 1783 he was said to be from Muff and he married Miss Blackall of Derry.7   It is possible Miss Blackall was related to the John Blackhall who succeeded James as District Curate of Faughanvale in 1791.  From 1793-1795 he was at the Chapel of St. Augustine.8  In 1795 he was made a freeman of the city of Londonderry.9  Reverend McGhee played a prominent role in defending Hacketstown, Carlow, during the Rebellion of 1798. 10   We do not know when James or his wife, Miss Blackall, died or where they were buried.  However Rev. James McGhee is thought to have died on the Isle of Man and his wife is reported to be buried under one of the seats in the center aisle of the parish church of Aghold, Wicklow.10   James McGhee had one child that we know of, his son Rev. Robert James McGhee. 

31.   REVEREND ROBERT JAMES MCGHEE AND MARY ANDREWS WINSTANLEY
Reverend Robert James is the earliest of these McGhees of whom a portrait exists.  In the National Library of Ireland there is a pamphlet in which exists a drawing of Rev. McGhee at about age 50.  It shows a genial-looking man, which seems to be in contrast with the in-the-flesh persona of Rev. McGhee who spent a substantial portion of his long career writing inflammatory pamphlets and speaking in vitriolic terms of the various evils of Catholicism in Ireland.  1

Robert James McGhee, son of James, Clericus, entered Trinity College Dublin 22 Jan 1805, aged 15 ľ.  He had been educated by Mr. Pack.2  His records from Trinity state that he was born in Carlow, although later records state he was born in Muff, Donegal.  In 1837 he was in Enniskerry, Wicklow, as a subscriber to Lewis’s Topographical Dictionary of Ireland.3  Late in his fiery career, Robert James was assigned to a parish in Huntingdonshire, England and in the 1851 census he states that he was born in Muff.4  Muff seems correct as his father James was Curate of Templemore Parish in Londonderry from 1779-1783, District Curate of Faughanvale in Londonderry in 1785 and at the Chapel of St. Augustine in Londonderry from 1793 until 1795.  Muff, until 1790, was part of Templemore and Faughanvale is directly across the Foyle from the now-Muff Parish.  I think it unlikely there was another Rev. James in the area other than the Rev. James McGhee discussed above.  He married Mary Andrews Winstanley in 18125.   They had one son, Robert James Leslie McGhee, later Rev. McGhee.  In a letter to the Earl of Roden in 1824 Rev. McGhee’s address was 14 Henrietta Street, Dublin.6  The Henrietta Street address is now a museum.  A list of over 50 of his published works is contained in the “Irish Ecclesiastical Gazette” 23 August 1876. .  Rev. McGhee died in 1872 and is buried in Mount Jerome Cemetery in Dublin.7  We do not know when his wife Mary Winstanley died or where she is buried.

32.  CATHERINE MACGHEE AND BARTHOLOMEW HARROLD
In an unexplained move, which was to result in financial difficulties for his daughter-in-law Elizabeth Hamilton, George MacGhee left the bulk of his estate to his daughter Catherine and her husband Bartholomew Harrold instead of to his son Rev. George.  Bartholomew was originally from a Catholic family.  And it is likely the two families first became acquainted during the Williamite War when Rev. George’s grandfather, James, served in King James’s army along with Nicholas and Bartholomew Harrold.1  Other Harrolds were in the Patriot Parliament and could also be found in Clare and Tipperary.2  In Clare, a Harrold was found in close proximity to those Macghees sent to that county by Cromwell.3  Bartholomew is found on the Convert Rolls in 1727, at which time he was recorded as residing in Dublin.  Bartholomew and Catherine were married in 1740.5  In 1728 Bartholomew leased the farm and lands of Ballincarragh in Mayo for three lives.6  Bartholomew Harrold and Catherine MacGhee had three daughters, June, Anne and Mary.  We estimate they were all born circa 1740-1760.  About June we know nothing further.  Mary Harrold, the second daughter, married Rev. John Spottwsood.  In 1773 they were living in Glendermot parish, (also spelled Clondermot) Londonderry.7
The only information we have about Anne is that in 1788 she evidently received property in Strabane from her parents, probably part of the estate of George McGhee, esq.  In 1788 she leased a tenement in Strabane from Hugh Lepper and Patrick McGhee.  We do not know the relationship between this Patrick and our family.  Her brother-in-law, John Spottswood, and a man named Edward Lynch, also signed as witnesses.8  In 1786 she leased a house on Church Street, known by the name of the Coach House, to Robert McIntosh.9   A later lease in 1830, of what was probably the same property, indicates that at least part of Anne’s estate passed to her niece Catharine Spottswood.10   Mary Harrold and Rev. John Spottswood had, to our knowledge, one daughter, Catherine, who on 6 March 1812 married Conolly McCausland-Skipton, who was born 3 Feb 1778. 8  We do not know when Mary and John died or where they are buried. 

33.  JAMES MACGHEE, THE CONNECTION TO NORTH AMERICA
Although we know a great deal about these early McGees in Tyrone, the connection of our group of McGees to the Strabane Macghees is based upon circumstantial evidence.  I will lay out the evidence for the connection which I will put forward in this section, but I welcome any corrections and apologize for any omissions.  

Cousins Jerry Don McGee and Ken McGee and I are descendants of three of five brothers who came to Virginia about 1750.  Those five were named John, James, Robert, William and David, all familiar given names in this family, with the notable exception of Robert.   They left behind a sister Jane in Tyrone.  Thanks to an extended Kentucky lawsuit over her brother William’s estate, we found that she had married Charles Young.1  On our second trip to PRONI we found records of that marriage as having occurred 11 June 1755.  In the Marriage Register of Donagheady Parish Rev. Bracegirdle refers to the couple as “both of this parish”.2  This led me to the conclusion that their parents were also “of that parish” and it is from these Marriage Registers that I have drawn the information which leads me to the postulated identification of the parents of the five brothers who came to North America @1750.  

A James Macghee was identified as a church warden when he signed the Vestry Minutes on 26 April 1698.3    Although I cannot prove it, I propose that this James was the son of that name mentioned in the 1678 will of David McGhee and the father of both George Macghee esq. and Robert McGee, married to Margaret Killgore.4   Unfortunately, this assertion cannot be verified nor disproved because of gaps in the Vestry Minutes, which do not include records of any baptisms nor marriages prior to 1697.  Of course it is possible that some other Macghee was Robert’s father.  But in reviewing not only the Donagheady Parish Vestry Minutes but also all the other documents we have found, I do not find another likely candidate.  It should be noted that Robert was a name which was never used by this family in any of the Irish or Scottish records we reviewed until this Robert born @1685. 

I believe that Robert McGee and Margaret Kilgore had one son, George (a well-established name in the family by now), baptized 20 February 1699.  I believe they were also the parents of Robert, born a few years earlier.  I propose that this Roberet was the man who went to Virginia with his children John, James, David, William and Robert, leaving his daughter Jane behind in Donagheady Parish.  If I have correctly identified this man, he was the Robert McGee who was declared exempt from levy in Augusta County, Virginia, in May 1765 due to great age and infirmity.5  He would have been @80 at the time.   We do not know when Robert died or what became of Margaret Killgore.

34.   CONCLUSION  
As we leave these Scots Irish McGees to embark upon the long trip to Virginia a few regretful thoughts enter my mind.  These people suffered too many wars that were fought for reasons too small.  Religious and ethnic bigotry fueled those wars that have been scabrous wounds in the histories of Scotland, Ireland and England.  The story of those times in Ireland is too often a story of two peoples sharing one island, yet really sharing little else beyond prejudice and antipathy which blinded them to their similarities and common interests.  I am reminded that bigotry is a multi-headed snake which strikes in all directions with equal venom.  I close with a quote from Rev. M. R. Buckley. 

“He who would throw oil on these troubled waters, blend the discordant elements, and direct the mingled mind of the WHOLE PEOPLE to one grand scheme of national improvement, would attempt the noblest task of the patriot, achieve the proudest triumph of philanthropy, and fulfill the highest duty of a Christian” These words ring as true today as when Rev. Buckley wrote them in 1868 and they speak to us modern Americans with as much relevance as they do to modern Irishmen.  

It is my hope that this paper will serve as a stimulus, a spark, to others who have an interest in this family.  My dearest wish is that others will find links, and through those links we will establish a more complete picture of the lives and histories of the these individuals who make up the leaves and limbs of this tree.  I am certain that there are mistakes, some of omission, some of commission, some due to incorrect inferences.  I don’t know where the mistakes lie, but I know they are there.  To find them and to point them out would be a great service to us all.  As of the date of this writing I may be reached via email at wiscbmcgee@gmail.com.  My cousin Jerry Don McGee can be reached at diamondmitexas@sbcglobal.net.  



APPENDIX I, WILL OF DAVID MACGHEE
Memorandum that on or about the ninth day of October one thousand six hundred seventy eight David Macghee of Loghmony in the County of Tyrone deceased did in the presence of ---the undernamed witnesses—his last will and testament nuncupative in the words following or words to the like effect (vis).    ……90
 He left Catherine Magee his wife all his yearly rent out of Loghmony, Drumnaboy and the houses and ---in and about Strabane during her natural life.  ITEM he left her sole administration of his last will and testament, ITEM He left his eldest son George Macghee after the death of the said Catharine his mother whatever yearly rents should accrue out of his lands in Loghmony, Drumnaboy, Holyhill and (Canarhano?) and the house in towne which now James Hamilton the north hath.  But left no power to him to sell or dispose of any part of the above said house or tenements from his eldest son and heir but depend upon his said son and his heirs.  ITEM Whereas George Hamilton of Nenagh in the county of Tipperary, Gent, and Bart was (endue)  him by bond one hundred and fifty pounds principall debt the interest whereof bill this time of his death he orders to be forgiven to the said Sr. George always provided that his said son should not be forced to sue the said Sr. George or his heirs of which (?) he orders his son John Macghee thirty pounds (?) and to his son in law Alexander Browne thirty pounds more and to his grandchild Mary Browne wife of John (Rea?) ten pounds more for all the residue of the said sums or bond he left equally to be divided to his said son George and his two sons David and (Tobiye)  ITEM He left his son James Macghee all his tenements and acres in and about the town of Strabane that was bound over to the said James his wife upon their marriage and also he left the said James a bond of sixty five pounds which James Hamilton of Eliston, Esq. was (endue?) him with any other little penny debts that was endue him ITEM He left his foresaid wife the house wherein the dwells and furnishings thereof during her life and then to his said son James being (?) then Ja. Macghee Marianna Lighton.    
There are no names of witnesses, nor signatures. 

APPENDIX II, WILL OF GEORGE MACGHEE, ESQ.                                                   
As I George Macghee of Strabane and County of Tyrone have entered into the sixty ninth year of my age notwithstanding whereas by the assistance of God I am designed soon to go abroad and as the contingency of human affairs there may be a probability of my not returning and therefor by the rules of common prudence dictated by me if I should in some measure settle my worldly affairs for the avoiding of confusion to my posterity.  It’s true I made a settlement of the better part of my estate in June 1740 as the reference being thereunto had in a large document sealed among my papers may more fully appear I order my following named executors to fully adhere. But as I had several other concerns and effects which I did not settle and have made some acquisitions since—disposal of as follows.  First I appoint my dear wife Rebecca who should be my sole executrix had I much more to dispose of but she is old and a woman and therefore unqualified to take care of things of the world.  Therefore for these reasons as well as being for her assistants I appoint my worthy and good friend John Denning of Strabane, shopkeeper, and William Knox of the same, innkeeper, not great but I believe honest men to be joint executors with said Rebecca Macghee of this my last will and testament revoking and (disannulling?) all former or other wills.  I leave to my wife Reabacca Macghee all my household goods, desk, furniture and chattels whatsoever together with a right to a lease I have in the city of Dublin in Plunkett Street for a term of years yet unexpired and also a mortgage I have in Ennishon upon the lands of Stephen Butler deceased amounting to the sum of thirty eight pounds six shillings and eight pence yearly, all which several premises I have her said Rebeccah a full and absolute power to dispose of at her death as she shall think proper and no sooner but with the advice of the aforesaid co-executors and after taking competent maintenance to herself she and they shall pay all my just debts whomsoever due as well as legacies to my dependants and servants.  Whereas I lately purchased a lease of some land in Dergalt for a full and valuable consideration from John (Homer?) to whom I had formerly made said lease as also I purchased another lease of lives from him made by my son George.  Also I purchased from Robert Willson of Lower Dergalt a poor honest man as also another lease from (Noble Ban?) of Upper Dergalt and have become tenant to my son for the half town inhabited by James Thompson as also part of a town formerly held by Hugh Fulton as also about four acres of ground formerly held by James Denison.  All these latter express articles are by no means intending my former demise but if I still reserve it in my power to dispose of as follows improvements I have made and do intend to make God sparing me days upon those concerns of Dergalt aforementioned and after paying my son reserve chief rent due to him by said leases granted by him and me and during the subsistence of those leases and I have a right to appoint the improved value to what purposes I think proper I therefore desire my forenamed executors may in case of my death before my return sett and let all the different concerns herein mentioned to the best improved value and not (squeezing?) incoming tenant or tenants but they may live comfortable according to their several stations with the following provises or exceptions.  Therefore first I order that in case of a marriage to be solemnized or intended to be solemnized between James McKee and Margaret Buchanan (Juner, Iuner?) of Ballyshannon  who is to bring a portion of fifty pounds along with her shall commence on November 1742 to a farm I lately purchased from Robert Willson for which he is to pay reserved rent to my  son eight pounds sterling per annum thereby if improvements I am designing upon same it will be worth double in value which farm he shall enjoy for twenty four years the former date and shall be obliged to keep all ditches and planting in sufficient repair and to keep his cattle out of copts, woods and ---.  Trees grow out of ---destruction and shall allow fireing for Willson’s half town for ---.  If at any time said Robert Willson fall behind in his rent and become incapable of holding his half town shall have two acres of land and two more for a living with his house, his garden and his stable rent free during the term or it shall be in his option to returning g---absent tenant.  As it hath pleased Almighty God to cause a late discovery of a (lake) quarry on land I own in Dergalt of which I have subsisting twenty-five years lease from November next and whereas it is estimated by several to be worth from twenty to fifty pounds per annum if properly managed and whereas it is an unmerited gift of God who is the author and guide of all good fortune my forenamed executors from time to time pay to the poor inhabitants of the Strabane and the Outer Parish who they think fit. I dedicate this as the first fruits or offerings to the poor of God which is to continue during my lease of twenty five years for that I am not able to make it longer.  I have made a former settlement upon these concerns to my son for I am now only lease to him but I do heartily recommend it to my son and my posterity if they may continue it as a charitable endowment if it may be well worthy of their posterity for God is not unrighteous if he will forget good work of those who do for his holy name.  If at any time be obliged to sell or dispose of these concerns they shall continue as mortgages of twelve pounds per annum issuing out of the quarry and not subject to sell it forever for which pious observations of these my injunctions they shall have my blessing as they cannot miss of God’s blessing.  I further order my executors shall appoint a proper person to keep a book and registry of all outlaying or disbursements and receipts issuing out of the quarry and he shall be a competent for same deducting of which expense and all---of the poor shall be one pound per month punctually if so much accrued, if less they are to honor all if more to be given as afterward directed.  As I have already provided a farm in Glenfinn for John McKee and gave him stock to put upon I further order for each child he has by his present wife Margaret McKee may have---pounds each of them to be paid by my executors according to their prudence which sum or sums are to be from the (superfluous?) profits of the quarry and leases in Dergalt but if less arrives from then my present expectations are they to be paid in proportion for having settled my previous purchases.  There is a child called John Macghee, an illegitimate son of my son Patrick Macghee.  As the child was in no way faulty in this matter and therefore ought to be provided for I therefore enjoin to my wife my surviving son and my executors may all of you going in giving him and good education and bringing him up in the scripture of God and the knowledge of the true protestant religion, the Church of England.  If he may be taught Latin language fitted to be an apprentice to an apothecary or surgeon.  If (conveyance?)---I propose Mr. Hamilton Donaldson to be his master and I have left said child a certain Arcanum Knowen to no other person upon the earth but to myself with will be---to him and no other when he comes to years to peruse.  By leaving him this I leave him a greater estate which if by God’s blessing he makes a good use of than ever I myself was.  ----of my son George may be put to as little expense as may be in his education I desire if costs may arise they be paid out of my leasehold in Dergalt and my mortgage in Ennishon, my mortgage in Dublin but out of all he may not only be bred a scholar but made a gentleman and put out as such into the world.  I have yet one material affair to devise to wit my concern of Morenbeg and Carryduff which concerns I have most unjustly a long time been kept out of contrary to all laws and humanity— without least preference of right---they will when recovered be worth at least one hundred pounds per year and possibly much more.  I promised formerly and I now hereby do confirm it that these whole concerns do go to my son and daughter Harrold during the longest lives of the two to their heirs if my said daughter Harrold has any they are paying in full and quiet possession of same and out of accruing profits as they can reasonably be raised fifty pounds sterling to each of them and Rev. Jr. John Spotswood.  (Childring?) Fifty pounds to each of my niece Francis Strong’s children but if it should happen that my daughter Harrold should have no children of her own body they are only to be rent and not subject to payment---but in proportion to the time they are to hold it free---if they hold it five years they are to pay half of the sums only but if they hold it ten they are to pay the whole.  And in case of their want of children upon the body of my daughter they are to have it during their lives---longest lives and afterwards to my son George and to his posterity forever.  All costs of and trouble necessary for it.  Recovering it by my son Harrold shall be reimbursed to him by my executors out of the profits arising out of my leases, quarry and always first paying the twelve pounds to the poor.  If two young Murdaghs my tenants in Dergalt are greatly in my debt but as they are hopeful boys and have an old mother to support that if they give us next season’s crop of hay when saved they shall be acquit of all demands but for what they owe my son I am not concerned they whereas Noble Bane is by bond indebted to me I order it if he proves a faithful servant if my executors think proper to confirm---the farm in his hands he may pay part of his debt by his service---.  If Hugh Fulton leaves my land as I believe he will for neither he or his wife was ever from me but always were searching for other farms and if they could have been better provided for elsewhere would have left me in the lurch as Thompson did and though I am neither obliged in law or conscience to allow them anything yet if they leave their crops upon the ground together with the lime limestone and turf agreed for by Mr. Owen Dogherty with him and do give a full and quiet possession of their land without trouble then in that case my executors shall pay him four pounds as it can be raised out of accruing profits.  I order James Bane McIlbride of Donachy, his brother may have for twenty five years from All Saints next year the whole farm James now lives on at a rent of forty shillings per year and the brothers shall equally enjoy it at a rent.  I could sell it at double the value but I acquit them of all my former demands which are not little ones but James shall pay my son what he owes to him.  

I order that poor widow O’Quin shall have twenty shillings per year out of the profits of the quarry, it is a part of the twelve pounds that widow (Mackroaian) may have twenty shillings out of the same.  Mary Robison alias widow Monroe may have the same sum of poor money.  The lame woman may have the same.  Bigg Margaret may have the same.  Joseph Dowler an honest poor man may have the same if more is left to the prudence of my executors.  There is a poor honest man Gillaspy Mackinis who has taken great pains to improve upon a park of ground to which he is my tenant.  I recommend him to my son to renew his lease for thirty one years from November next that he may have the benefit of his labors.  I shall provide for my servant David Fleming if I can in Dublin but if not will remember him other ways.  I leave each of my executors ten pounds to buy mourning at my death but not to be paid until by their care my debts which are but few are paid arising from the promises.  Lastly I order that my corps may be buried in the Church of Leck Patrick in the burying place of my ancestors in a plain black coffin giving no drink or (searves?) as usual but to be carried by tenants of Dergalt quickly without show by giving the poor five pounds at the burial place in case I die in Strabane.  But if my executors should otherwise fall out my directions God willing shall be accordingly as the afore recited particulars I do hereby confirm.  Written with my own hand with the same reason wherewith God has endowed me and this I publish as my last will in presents of it I subscribe this 25th day of October 1741.
Signed Geo.Macghee (seal)
Witnesses present; John Denning, Owen Dogherty, Wm. Knox, David Fleming

APPENDIX III, WILL OF THEOBALD MACGHEE
The last will and testament of Theobald Macghee of Portmacghee in the Kingdom of Ireland and County of Kerry, being in my perfect senses blessed be God, making this will in the kingdom of Portugal in the presence of the undernamed in the city of Lisburn of the wreck of my ship and all things belonging to her may be exposed to the sale at the best price by disposing first of the hull, masts, yards and cordage, old sails in order to pay what debts I owe here out of the first produce, viz to some seamen’s wages on account with Mr. James Fitzmaurice whatever it will come to. To the seamen I owe first to Barnaby McCabe one maydore. To George Benson one maydore.  To Richard Fox a quarter maydore but if it appears upon examination that there’s a small matter more that they may be paid it.  To (Will Stoneharn?) late mate of the said ship wrecked one maydore besides four maydores left in Mr. Thomas Hussie’s hands for him besides an accompt standing out with Mr. Thomas Hussey which when known and adjusted he may be paid the full content.  ITEM  All the funeral charges, physicians, apothecaries, internments, attendances, may also be paid out of the said produce.  ITEM  I will and bequeath without waiting for the assistance or aid of any other executor that may be named hereafter that Mr. George, Mr. Henry Mouragh and John Fitzmaurice may enter forthwith upon the sale and disposal of the hull of the ship in order to pay the aforesaid debts reserving last unsold the running and standing riggings of my ship the three cables and three anchors till there is a deficiency of money to pay the debts forementioned otherwise and that the old iron works which are in (Corpa-Sancto) may be among the last reserve.  ITEM  I will and bequeath that my eldest son David Macghee living in the island of Palma may call himself according to his own conscience to an account how much of my effects remains in his hands to be accompted for towards payment of my debts or making some provision for my two younger sons not intending hereby that he should scrutinize too much upon himself, but that he may consider the state of his younger brothers.  ITEM  I bequeath that Mr. John Stone, Vice Counsel of the island of St. George’s in the Azores may call himself to an accompt for the planks, beams, wearing cloths and other goods which I left in his hands to be disposed of to my best advantage and to remit the produce of them to Mr. George Hay, Movagh and Fitzmaurice of the city of West Lisbon.  ITEM I bequeath that my farm Stradbally in the county of Kerry in the kingdom of Ireland, as also my farm of (K-Kierag?) in the barony of Duhallow in the County of Cork in Ireland aforesaid shall be both sold to the best advantage in order to pay my debts in Ireland and where that proves deficient towards paying the said debts I will and bequeath that all my stock of cowes, sheep and horses may be also sold to make good the said deficiencies.  ITEM  I will and bequeath that if the above sale is deficient towards paying my debts that the farm of Valencia also be sold to the like purpose.  ITEM  I will and bequeath that my well beloved wife Bridget Maghee alias Crosby, Sir Maurice Crosby, Knight, Parson Francis Lauder, Mr. Philip Morgan shall be my executors in Ireland to see to the due execution of this my last will and testament according to my true intent and meaning at the time of making this will.  I also will and bequeath that the above said executors when they have calculated what debts or credits are due, may have---poser to manage, act, and do what shall be equitable and just in their consciences in making what provision they can or the substance will bear for my two younger sons, George and Toby Macghee taking care that they may not be altered from the religion in which I brought them up from their minority and what may be wanting to my two daughters for the relief or necessity.  ITEM  I will and bequeath that my body may be interred in the Irish Dominican College where I order the high mass and the Office of the Dead may be rung for my soul as—twenty private masses the same day as---.  Given under my hand at West Lisburn this 9th day of December 1724.  Theobald Macghee.  Witnesses present—Dominick French, James Heffernan, Michael Malone, Sam; Fitzmaurice, Bern: Higgins
Probate 7 Sept 1727.  A new executor, Maurice Crosby, militas, appears.

APPENDIX IV,   SUGGESTIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH
I hope that after reading this paper some readers will decide to carry this research further.  If that happy event occurs I have several suggestions:
1.  A likely connection to William Magee, Archbishop of Dublin.  There are several things about Rev. Magee which hold out promise and lead us to believe there is a connection.  The coat of arms used by Rev. Magee, who was born in Fermanagh in 1766, bears a striking similarity to that on the gravestone of John Maghee who died in 1617 and is buried in the Old Leckpatrick cemetery just north of Strabane.  Both feature the heads of three cats.  Rev. Magees’s coat of arms is shown, along with a discussion of his ancestors and some descendants, in a book edited by Frederick Crisp and Joseph Howard titled Visitation of Ireland. 
2. Captain George Macghee, he who sold Holy Hill to the Sinclairs, evidently had a very large number of children, about 13 or 14.  We have no idea what became of those children, other than his son Toby (Theobald).  This large number of children, presumably born between 1630-1650, cast a large shadow over attempts to ascertain with a reasonable degree of certainty from whom various people encountered along the way descended.  Knowing, for example, that there are lots of McGhees listed in the Donagheady Parish Vestry Minutes whom we cannot positively identify leads to the possibility that some of them could be descendants of Capt. George.  It would be very useful to know.  There is also the possibility, mentioned in the section of the paper about Capt. George and his wife Helena, that George had spent some amount of time in the French Forces.  Were his children born abroad?  Did they live and die abroad, leading to relatives in France?  We just do not know and knowing could be very valuable. 
3. David Macghee, he who went to the Canary Islands and married Catalina Borges Oropesa, presents a target-rich environment for research, one that has been only lightly touched.  I do not speak Spanish, nor do the other members of the group.  None of us have been on a trip to the Canaries in search of David.  However, we believe that in the Colgan records which still exist there is much new information to be found and I urge any interested researchers to take up this challenge. 
4. James McGhee, son of David McGhee, was referred to by Burke as James McGhee, M.D.  We have found no records of a medical education or medical practice.  However, given the clear emphasis on education within the family it does not seem at all unlikely that such an education occurred, probably abroad.  Where and when?  Also, James had one son we know of for sure, George McGhee, esq.  In the paper I have speculated that there was another son, Robert, but do not know for sure.  Any further information about James would be very helpful.  
5. John McGhee, son of David McGhee, was the father of David McGhee, who married Catherine Elmore.  They owned property in Co. Clare which seems to have remained in the hands of family members for over a century.  However, we do not know the names or anything about the owners between Major David, who died in 1705 and James (Jack McGhee who was born about 1790 and married Bridget Miller.  James (Jack) McGhee is only a name to us and we know nothing else about him.  The property in question passed from Jack McGhee to his daughter Mary, who married Arthur Gethin Creagh in 1827.  Anything at all we could find out about this line and the property would be very welcome. 
6. The cane.  The discovery of the article about McGhee cane by Fergus McGhee was remarkable and very valuable to us.  Fergus has so far been unsuccessful in his efforts to locate the cane.  Any information about its present owner and location would be greatly appreciated.

* Home
* Womens 
* Women's Ethno Graphic Crew Socks

Women's Ethno Graphic Crew Socks

ENDNOTES
1.  (None)
2.  WHO ARE THE MCGEES?
1.  J.J. Marshall, Annals of Aughnacloy and Parish of Carnteel, 1925
2.  George MacGhee, Esq., will, Appendix 2

3.  JOHN MAKGEE IN SCOTLAND 
1.  P.H. McKerlie, Lands and Their Owners in Galloway, 1994, Vol.13, p105
2.  Registration of Notaries, document NP2/2, 8 Mar 1574, National Archives of Scotland
3.  Robert Stedall, The Challenge to the Crown, Vol 1, 2013, p74
4.  Andrew Lang, John Knox and the Reformation, 1905, p195
5.  John Dickinson Knox, The History of the Reformation in Scotland, 1831, p507
6.  William McDowall, Chronicles of Lincluden as an Abbey and as a College, p130
7.  Robert Edgar, Introduction to a History of Dumfries, p138, Registrum Magni Sigilli, 1432-1513, 3335
8.  Scottish Record Society, Protocol Book of Mark Carruthers 1531-1561, p30
9.  Journal of the Dumfries and Galloway Natural History and Antiquarian Society, 3rd Series, Vol II, no 97, Protocol Book of Herbert Anderson 1541-1550
10.  Acts and Decreets, 1578-1581, R.C.Reid Collection, Ewart Library Dumfries, Vol 155, p41
11.  Extract of Wills and Testaments, from Edinburgh Testaments, R.C. Reid Collection, Ewart Library Dumfries, Vol 6, F179
12.  Robert Edgar, Introduction to a History of Dumfries, p241
13.  Register of the Privy Seal of Scotland, 22 February 1596. (PSI 1/69 F61)
14.  Protocol Book of Herbert Cunningham 1561-1574. R.C. Reid Collection, Ewart Library Dumfries, Vol 129, no 131
15.  Robert Edgar, An Introduction to the History of Dumfries, p138
16.  Deeds Collected from Register House, Vol 157, p104, R.C. Reid Collection, Ewart Library Dumfries
17.  A.E. Truckell, Three Sweetheart Abbey Charters, in Addenda Antiquaria, p 171, Stewartry Museum, Kirkcudbright
18.  James F. S. Gordon, Journal and Appendix to Scotichcronicon and Monasticon, 1869, p527
19.  Acts and Decreets, 1581-1582, Vol 85-95, p95, R.C. Reid Collection, Ewart Library Dumfries
20.  Ditto, p107
21.  Philip Grierson, Sheriff Court Book of Dumfries 1577-1583, Kept by Andrew Cunninghame, Transactions of the Dumfries and Galloway Natural History and Antiquarian Society 1924-25, 3rd Series, Vol 12, p216
22.  R.C. Reid, The Culvennan Writs, Transactions of the Dumfries and Galloway Natural History and Antiquarian Society 1922-23, 3rd Series, Vol 10, p57
23.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, Nov 1601, p312
24.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, 1604-1607, Vol VII, p318
25.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, 28 November 1606, p318
26.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, 28 March 1606, addendum 1545-1625, Vol XIV, p425, no.208
27.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, 12 February 1607, p318
28.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, 1608, Vol VIII, p119
29.  Registry of the Privy Council of Scotland, 1608, Vol VIII, p132
30.  Andrew McCulloch, Galloway, a Land Apart, p318

4.  FLIGHT TO IRELAND
1.  Burke’s Peerage, Vol 2, 1847, p1244, under heading of Skipton of Beech Hill
2.  Protocol Book of Herbert Cunynghame (1602-1612), National Archives of Scotland B17/1/3
3.  Old Parochial Registers, Deaths and Burials Index, Dumfries Parish, Part I, 1617-1679, p35, Dumfries and Galloway Family Histokrky Society
4.  R.C.Reid, Selected Protocols of Herbert Cunningham, 18 August 1596, Ewart Library Dumfries
5.  National Archives of Scotland B17/1/8 f105r, 8 July 1631
6.  National Archives of Scotland, B17/1/8 f105r, 8 July 1631
5.  THE PLANTATION OF IRELAND
1.  Owen Connellan and Philip McDermot, Annals of Ireland, 1846, p713
2.  John P. Prendergast, The Cromwellian Settlement of Ireland, 1870, p260
3.  The British Critic and Quarterly Theological Review, Vol 24, 1838, p167
4.  Calendar of State Papers of Ireland, Charles I, 1625-1632, Jan 9, 1630
5.  Calendar of State Papers of Ireland, Charles I, 1625-1632, Jan 30, 1630
6.  ditto, Dec. 21, 1629
7.  ditto, 
8.  ditto, Jan 9, 1630

6.  THE WORLD IN 1610
1.  Marvin Perry, Joseph Peden and Theodore H. Von Laun, eds., Sources of the Western Tradition, Vol II From the Renaissance to the Present, 3rd edition, 1995, p22

7. DAVID MACGHEE
1.  Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, Vol VIII, 1607-1610, p132
2.  Abstract of Baird Family Typed Notes, p898-899, PRONI T808/898-899
3.  ditto
4.  Wm. J. Roulston, Restoration Strabane, 1660-1714, Economy and Society in Provincial Ireland, p46
5.  William A. Shaw, ed.  Denizations and Naturalizations of Aliens in England and Ireland  , a publication of the Huguenot Society of London, Vol XVIII, p333
6.  Robert Simington, ed. The Civil Survey of 1654, Vol III, p. 385
7.  ditto, p390
8.  Lodge, Records of the Rolls, Vol VI, Charles I to 1648, PRONI MIC 600/4, p231
9.  Indenture, George Hamilton of Nenagh to Patrick Hamilton, 4 Apr 1676, PRONI D623/B/13/9
10.  Lease between Sir George Hamilton and Robert Carson, 30 Apr, 1675, PRONI LPC 771
11.  Wm. J. Roulston, Restoration Strabane, 1660-1714, Economy and Society in Provincial Ireland, p54
12.  Chancery Inquisition Juries, PRONI T1365

9.  THE WILLIAMITE WARS
1.  John Bergin and Andrew Lyall,  The Acts of James IIs Irish Parliament of 1689
2.  Wikipedia,  

11.  THE CONVERT ROLLS
1.  Desmond Bowen, The Protestant Crusade in Ireland, 1800-1870, p141
2.  ditto, p154

12.  THE CHILDREN OF DAVID MACGHEE AND CATHERINE BROWNE
1.Records of the Scots Colleges of Douai, Rome, Madrid, Valladolid and Ratisbon, Vol I, a  publication of the Spalding Club, 1906 

13. CAPTAIN GEORGE MACGHEE
1,  Scotland Births and Baptisms 1564-1950, Family History Library, #0102907, 0990748
2.  Warren Loane, Abstract of Title of Holy Hill, photocopy in the author’s possession
3.  Records of the Scots Colleges of Douai, Rome, Madrid, Valladolid and Ratisbon, Vol 1, a publication of the Spalding Club, 1906, p32
4.  ditto, p39
5.  Warren Loane, Abstract of Title of Holy Hill, photocopy in the author’s possession
6.  Calendar of State Papers of the Reign of Charles II, V28, Addenda 1660-1685, p492
14.  DESCENDANTS OF CAPT. GEORGE MACGHEE AND HELENA
1. Warren Loane, Abstract of Title of Holy Hill, photocopy in the author’s possession
2. Colgan collection, Canary Islands, Ltr of 20 Jan 1714, copy in author’s possession.
3.  Diocese of Killaloe Marriage License Bonds, 19 Oct 1693  , folio 13  on-line at www.celticcousins.net/Ireland/killloe.htm
4.  Payments Made to Officers who Deserted From the Army of King James, PRONI T689/1
5.  J.G. Simms, Irish Jacobites, Lists from TCD MSN.I.3 in Analecta Hibernica, 2nd Series, No 22, 1960, p116
6.  The Irish Builder, 15 April 1895, p103, National Library of Ireland
7.  J.F.Fuller, Pedigrees of Parr, Magee, Morgell and Other Kerry Families  Kerry Archaeological Magazine, Vol IV, Oct 1917, pp196-198
8.  Last Will and Testament of Theobald Macghee.  Appendix 2

15.  DESCENDANTS OF CAPTAIN THEOBALD MACGHEE AND BRIDGET CROSBY
1.  J.F.Fuller, Pedigrees of Parr, Magee, Morgell and Other Kerry Families  Kerry Archaeological Magazine, Vol IV, Oct 1917, pp196-198
2.  Eileen O’Byrne, ed, The Convert Rolls, The Calendar of the Convert Rolls, 1703-1832
3.  Alumni Dublinensis: A Register of the Students, Graduates, Professors and Provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860), online at https://digitalcollections.tcd.ie/home/index.php?DRIS_ID=LCN10378529_0003
4.  Henry Cotton, Fasti Ecclesiae Hibernicae;  The Succession of the Prelates, Vol I, p445

16.  THEOBALD MACGHEE AND ELLEN MCCARTHY
1.  J.F.Fuller, Pedigrees of Parr, Magee, Morgell and Other Kerry Families, Kerry Archaeological Magazine, Vol IV, Oct 1917, pp196-198
2.  Wills, New Series, Vol 17, Archives of the National Library of Ireland
3.. The Trant Family, Kerry Archaeological Magazine, Vol 2, No 12, March 1914, pp237-262
4.  Eileen O’Byrne, ed, The Convert Rolls, The Calendar of the Convert Rolls, 1703-1832
5.  Barry Cahill, The Career of Chief Justice Bryan Finucane, Nova Scotia Historical Society Collections, Vol42(1986), p153 
6.  R.W.Innes Smith, M.D. , English Speaking Students of Medicine at the University of Leyden 

17.  DAVID MACGHEE AND CATALINA BORGES OROPESA
1.  Antonio Lorenzo Tena, Una Colonia Irlandesa en la Isla de La Palma durante en Siglo XVIII, in Boletin Millares Carlo, num 27, Centro Asociado UNED. Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 2008, p90
2.  Archiva Parroquial de El Salvador, Santa Cruz de La Palma, Libro 5 de matrimonios, ff 10r-10v
3.  Antonio Lorenzo Tena, Una Colonia Irlandesa en la Isla de La Palma durante en Siglo XVIII, in Boletin Millares Carlo, num 27, Centro Asociado UNED. Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 2008, p92
4.  Jaime Perez Garcia, Casas Y Familias De Una Cuidad Historica; La Calle Real de Santa Cruz de la Palma

18.  MARTHA MACGHEE
1.  J.F. Fuller, Pedigrees of Parr, Magee, Morgell and Other Kerry Families, Kerry Archaeological Magazine, Vol IV, Oct 1917, pp196-198
2.  Mary Agnes Hickson, Selections From Old Kerry Records: Historical and Genealogical:With Introductory Memoir, information about Macghees under Blennarhasset family, Allen County Public Library, Indiana
3.  Antonio Lorenzo Tena, Una Colonia Irlandesa en la Isla de La Palma durante en Siglo XVIII in Boletin Millares Carlo, num 27, Centro Asociado UNED. Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 2008, p96
4.  J.F. Fuller, Pedigrees of Parr, Magee, Morgell and Other Kerry Families, Kerry Archaeological Magazine, Vol IV, Oct 1917, pp196-198
19.CLAUDE AND ANDREW MCGHEE
1.  Records of the Scots Colleges of Douai, Rome, Madrid, Valladolid and Ratisbon, Vol I, a publication of the New Spalding Club, 1906
2.  Prerogative Administrations Intestate, G.O. 259, National Archives of Ireland
3.  Rev J.F.S. Gordon, Journal and Appendix to Scotchronicon and Monasticon, p592

20.  ELIZABETH MCGHEE AND ALEXANDER BROWNE
1.  Records of the Scots Colleges of Douai, Rome, Madrid, Valladolid and Ratisbon, Vol I, a publication of the New Spalding Club, 1906
2.  Donagheady Parish Church of Ireland Vestry Minutes, 16 Apr 1723, PRONI MIC 1/35/1
3.  Subsidy Rolls, Tyrone, 1664/1666, PRONI T 283/D/1

21.  JOHN MACGHEE
1.  John Ainsworth, ed, The Inchiquin Manuscripts, p352
2.  ditto, p353
3.  Seamus Pender, ed, A Census of Ireland Circa 1659
4.  Edward MacLysaght, The Surnames of Ireland
5.  James Frost, The History and Topography of the County of Clare: From the Earliest Times to the Beginning of the 18th Century, p563
6.  ditto, p585
7.  John Ainsworth, ed., Will of James Roch of Killgobbane, Clare, 
The Inchiquin Manuscripts, p517, NLI A17043
8.  ditto, p552

22.  MAJOR DAVID MACGHEE AND CATHERINE ELMORE
1.  Killaloe, Co. Clare, Marriage License Bonds 1680-1720 and 1760-1762, NLI MS 31883
2.  James Frost, The History and Topography of the County of Clare: From the Earliest Times to the Beginning of the 18th Century , p583
3.  John Ainsworth, ed, The Inchiquin Manuscripts, p517
4.  Sir Donough O’Brien, 1st Baronet, in Wikipedia under https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir_Donough_O’Brien,1st_Baronet
5.  James Frost, The History and Topography of the County of Clare; From the Earliest Times to the Beginning of the 18th Century, p626
6.  Sir Bernard Burke, A Genealogical and Heraldic Dictionary of the Landed Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland and, Vol 1, 1862 
7.  John Creagh,  A Genealogical Survey of the Peerage of Britain as well as the Royal Families of Europe, person page 37524, online at www.thepeerage.com/p37526.htm#:37251
8.  Hugh Weir, Historical, Genealogical, Architectural Notes on Some Houses of Clare
9.  Frederick Arthur Crist,ed.,  Visitation of England and Wales
10.  1702 Will of Daniel MacGhee, Ancestry.com, Index to Wills, 1384-1858.
11.  William J. Roulston, Restoration Strabane, 1660-1714.  Economy and Society in Provincial Ireland, P55
12.  Irish Jacobites, Lists from TCD M.S. N.1.3 in Analectica Hibernica, second series, No22, 1960, p99
13.  Killaloe, Co. Clare Marriage License Bonds 1680-1720 and 1760-1762, Co. Clare Library MS 31883, Folio 77

23. DESCENDANTS OF JAMES MCGHEE
1.  Sir Bernard Burke, Burke’s Peerage, Vol 2, 1847, under Skipton of Beech Hill, page 1244 
2.  John Dalton, Illustrations, Historical and Genealogical, of King James’s Irish Army List, p11
3.  Calendar of State Papers of Ireland, 1615-1625, 16 April 1615, Stearne MSS, TCD
4.  T.W.Moody and J.G.Simms, The Bishopric of Derry and the Irish Society of London, 1602-1705, p38
5.  John Ainsworth, ed., The Inchiquin Manuscripts, document 1079, p352
6.  Deed, Memorial 32013, Feb 1725, p286, Recorder of Deeds, Dublin
7.  Abstract of Baird Family typed Notes, p898-899, PRONI T808/898-899
8.  Large Folio Relating to Property Sales of Forfeited Land,  folio 157,  PRONI D1854/2/19
9.  Land Indenture of 2 July 1692, PRONI D1062/4/A/8
10.  J. Graham, Derriana, 1823, p43
11.  Vestry Minutes of Donagheady Church of Ireland, PRONI MIC 1/35/1
12.  Ditto

24. GEORGE MACGHEE ESQ. AND REBECCAH HAMILTON
1.  A List of the Claims as They are Entered with the Trustees at Chichester House on College Green, Dublin on or Before the Tenth of August 1700, p351, NLI LOLB44
2.  List of Mayors of Dublin, Wikipedia under https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/list_of_Mayors _of_Dublin
3.  Deed of 4 June 1702, PRONI LPC1324
4.  Rev. William Homes, Diary of Rev. William Homes of Chilmark, Martha’s Vinyard, 1689-1746, Maine Historical Society
5.  Deed from George McGhee to John Love et. al.  PRONI T 808/9
6.  Exchequer Bill 5 Feb 1731, George McGhee esq. vs Robert Kyle, PRONI T808/864-1000
7.  Somerset Richard Lowry-Corry, Earl of Belmore, Parliamentary Memoirs of Fermanagh & Tyrone From 1613-1885, Appendix 8
8.  Will of George Macghee, 25 Oct 1741, PRONI LPC 1325
9.  John Bradley, Fair River Valley, p134
10.  Bishop Gibson’s Letters, A List of the Nobility and Gentry Who Are Generally Believed to Have One Hundred Pounds a Year. PRONI T3446/1
11.  Sir Arthur Vicars, Index of Prerogative Wills, p304
26.  PATRICK MACGHEE AND HIS SON JOHN
1.  G. D. Burtchaell and T.U. Sadleir, Alumni Dublinensis: A Register of the Students, Graduates, Professors and Provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860)
2.  R.W. Innes Smith, English-Speaking Students of Medicine at the University of Leyden, p147
3.  ditto, p84
4.  Grant, George Macghee, Patrick Macghee to William Stevenson, 1729, PRONI D1062/4/A/21
5.  Minute Books of the Londonderry Corporation, 21 Sept 1732
6.  Memorial of deed 63402, Vol 90, p132, Registry of Deeds, Dublin
7.  Will index to the Prerogative Court, NLI website at https://census.nationalarchives.ie/search/dw/home.jsp

27.  CHURCH OF IRELAND CLERGY
1.  Desmond Bowen, The Protestant Crusade in Ireland, 1800-1870, p140

28.  REVEREND GEORGE MACGHEE AND ANN HAMILTON
1.  G.D. Burchaell  and T.U. Sadlier, Alumni Dublinenses; a register of the students, graduates, professors and provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860)
2.  J.B.Leslie, Clergy of Derry and Raphoe, pp290, 136
3.  Church of Ireland Rectors, on web page of County Tyrone Ireland Genealogy Research, https://cotyroneireland.com/churchrecord/ministers-cofi.html
4.  J.B.Leslie, Clergy of Derry and Raphoe, p133
5.  Indenture of Land in Strabane, 31 July 1740, PRONI D1062/4A/22
6.  Lease between George McGhee and James Dunlap, PRONI D1336/1/16
7.  John H. Gebbie, ed, An Introduction to the Abercorn Letters, as Relating to Ireland, letter of 24 July 1751, p36
8.  Will of Cornet Archibald Hamilton, Memorial 106549, Will Book 159, p201, Registry of Deeds, Dublin
9.  Abercorn Estate-Tenements and Proprietors in Strabane 1755, PRONI D623/A/31/63
10.  Vestry Minutes of Donagheady Church of Ireland, PRONI MIC 1/35/1
11.  Letter From Jas. Hamilton to Abercorn, PRONI T2541/1A/63/138
12.  Letters Within Hamilton Documents, PRONI D/623/A/38/142
13,  Letter From Abercorn to Rev. Bracegirdle, PRONI D1623/A/18/1-110
14.  Abercorn Correspondence, 28 Sept 1770, PRONI D623/A/39/71
15.  Letter from Ann McGhee, Dublin to Earl of Abercorn, 4 Mar 1776, PRONI D/623/A/43/6

29. REVEREND WILLIAM W. MCGHEE
1.  G.D. Burchaell and T.U. Sadlier, Alumni Dublinenses; a register of the students, graduates, professors and provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860)
2.  Extracts from Londonderry Journal, June 1772-1784, 9 Oct 1778, online at colerainefhs.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/Notes_from_Londonderry_Journal.pdf
3.  Rev. James B. Leslie, Derry Clergy and Families, p103
4.  G.E. Ferguson,ed,  The Changing Years in the Grouped Parishes of Ardstraw, Baronscourt and Bodoney Union,  p143, NLI 3B1198
5.  Rev. James B. Leslie, Derry Clergy and Families, p103 
6.  G.D. Burchaell and T.U. Sadlier, Alumni Dublinenses: a register of the students, graduates, professors  and provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860), pp534,545
7.  The Old Church at Edrim, Killymard, County Donegal, online at www.ulsterancestry.com

30.  REVEREND JAMES MCGHEE AND MISS BLACKALL
1.G.D. Burchaell and T.U. Sadlier, Alumni Dublinenses: a register of the students, graduates, professors and provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860), p534
2. Ditto, pp534,545
3.  The Old Church at Edrim, Killymard, County Donegal, online at www.ulsterancestry.com
4.  Michael Quane, Raphoe Royal School, p156
5.  J.B. Leslie, Church of Ireland Derry Clergy and Parishes, p291
6.  Ditto, p2284.  
7.  Extracts from Londonderry Journal, June 1772-1784, 25 February 1783, online at colerainefhs.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/Notes_from_Londonderry_Journal.pdf
8.  J.B. Leslie, Church of Ireland Derry Clergy and Parishes, p228
9.  Registry of Freemen Mentioned in the Minute Books, (c1700-1945), #215, p145, online at indirect.gov.uk/publications/register-  
10.  Rev. James W. Smith, Parsons I Have Known, in The Church Advocate, 1 July 1883, p961

31.  REVEREND ROBERT JAMES MCGHEE AND MARY ANDREWS WINSTANLEY
1.  Rev. Robert James McGhee by the artist William Stevenson.  NLI EPMCGH-RO(1)V, prints and drawings collection
2.  G.D. Burchaell and T.U. Sadlier, Alumni Dublinenses; a register of the students, graduates, professors and provosts of Trinity College in the University of Dublin (1593-1860),p534
3.  Library of Ireland website @https:www.libraryireland.com/topog/subsm.php
4.  1851 Census of England, online at ukcensusonline.com
5.  All Wills, Estates and Guardian Records results for Robert McGee, online on Ancestry.com @https://www.ancestry.ca/search/categories/clp_wills/?name=Robert_McGhee&name_x=s&spouse=Mary_Reid
6.  Letter From Rev. McGhee to Earl of Roden, Dundalk, PRONI MIC 147/5
7.  Sylvanus Urban, The Gentleman’s Magazine, New Series, Vol 5, Jan-June 1836C

32.  CATHERINE MACGHEE AND BARTHOLOMEW HARROLD
1.  John D’Alton, King James Irish Army List, p466
2.  Thomas Osborne Davis, The Patriot Parliament of 1689; With Its Statutes, Votes and Proceedings
3.  Killaloe, Co. Clare, Marriage License Bonds, 1680-1720 &1760-1762, Folio 7, Clare Co. Library, MSS 31883
4.  Eileen O’Byrne and Anne Chamney, eds, The Convert Rolls, p117
5.  The Inchiquin Papers, by the Irish Manuscripts Commission, NLI MS45,101/4
6.  Listing of Diocesan and Prerogative Marriage License Bonds, 1623-1866, NAI Website
7.  Accounts and Papers, Thirteen Volumes, Miscellaneous.  Life Annuities and Tontines, Volume XXX, Session 5 February-23 July 1830, p25
8.  Lease between Anne Harrold and Patrick McGhee, PRONI D1062/4A/31
9.  Lease between Anne Harrold and Robert McIntosh, PRONI D1062/4A/38
10.  Lease by Connelly Skipton and His Wife Catherine Skipton, otherwise Spottswood, to Alexander Auchinleck  PRONI D1062/4A/59
11.  Sir Bernard Burke, Burke’s Peerage, Vol 2, 1847, p1244 under Skipton of Beech Hill

33. JAMES MACGHEE, THE CONNECTION TO NORTH AMERICA
1.  Wm. McGee Heirs Vs. James Young 16Nov1843, Bourbon County, Kentucky Circuit Court Records
2.  Vestry Minutes of Donagheady Parish Church of Ireland, 11June 1755, PRONI MIC 1/35/1
3.  Ditto, 26April1698
4.  Ditto 20Feb1699
5.  Lyman Chalkley, Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish Settlement in Virginia, p360
83

