LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735
THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
  John Boyle, sixth earl of Orrery, is today best known for his rancorous and spiteful Remarks on Swift published in 1751. This was the book that did something to cheer up Lady Mary Wortley Montagu when she was feeling ill and slightly out of touch in Italy. She knew him personally and adroitly summed up his character by calling him 'one of those danglers after wit, who like those after beauty, spend their time in humbly admiring . . . those professed wits and beauties who aim at being publicly distinguished in those characters'.l Dr Johnson goes even further describing him as 'A feeble-minded man His conversation was like his writings, neat and elegant, but without strength. He grasped at more than his abilities could reach; tried to pass for a better talker, a better writer, and a better thinker than he was'.2
  Nevertheless among his letters3 there are some of the most vivid accounts of Irish life written during the Georgian period.
  Orrery was first to come to Ireland as he put it 'to encounter the Giants of that Kingdom who have laid waste my Patrimony'.4 The tallest offender was one Brettridge Badham, an unscrupulous agent whom Orrery curses many a time in his correspondence.5 Badham had robbed both Orrery and his father, the fifth earl, and seems to have laid a greedy hand on much of the Boyles' Irish estates, estates that had been built up so carefully by the first and 'great' earl of Cork from early in the seventeenth century. Some of these lands lay in Co. Kerry near Dingle.
  Dr Charles Smith, the historian of Kerry, states that the earls of Desmond had granted the Blasket Islands and other lands at the end of this peninsula to the Ferriter family, and these islands were especially well known as a breeding ground for hawks.6 After the Desmond Rebellion, in 1586, this property was granted to some English adventurers who in turn sold them to Sir Richard
1. Letters from the Right Honourable Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, 1709-1762 (London 1906) 435.
2. Quoted in the Complete peerage X, 422. For a further account of Orrery see Dictionary of national biography.
3. The Countess of Cork and Orrery (ed.), The Orrery papers, 2 vols. (London 1903). Henceforth referred to as Papers i and ii.
4. Papers i, 113.
5. Papers i, 127; 'The Devil Badham'; 'the greatest Knave in Xtendom', ibid., 232. Swift refers to Lord Orrery's visit in Dec. 1732: 'His business will keep him here till next winter, for his agent is the chiefest rogue of his calling' (H. Williams (ed.), The correspondence ofJonathan Swift iv (Oxford 1965) 91).
6. C. Smith, The antient and present state of the couuty of Kerry (Dublin 1756)
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	47
Boyle, afterwards first earl of Cork. From him they descended to Lord Orrery, and it is for this reason that he had to set out for this remote area.
  Lord Orrery went on to call his first Irish trip 'a Journey for Profit not for Pleasure' further lamenting and crying out: 'Oh the Torments of an Estate! '7
  Orrery's wife was pregnant, and ill-advisedly she accompanied her husband to Cork, arriving early in July 1732. She died on August 22,8 much to Orrery's genuine grief. This sad happening must have done a great deal to jaundice his view of the land of his ancestors, though on the credit side he made a lasting friend of the Cork 'Esculapius of the Age', Dr Barry, who had attended his wife through her last fatal miscarriage. Orrery was back in England in 1733, but a couple of years later, in June 1735, he was notifying Dr Barry from Dublin of a further visit to Munster.9 He also wrote to a friend in England that Councillor Kalaan (Callaghan) deemed it necessary for him to 'travel Quixot-like all over Ireland in search of certain Lands and Tenements now in the possession of Some Hibernian Giants'; 10 so he soon turned his attention to the windmills of Kerry.
  Orrery went down to visit his house, Egmonte near Charleville in Co. Cork, before leaving for Kerry and wrote from there to Alexander Pope on August 10, predicting that he would be back in England before a year was up as business was going well for him, and hoping not to have to return to 'the impoverished and desolate Island'll of Ireland for many a year. Later in the letter he complains that conversation in Co. Cork consists of nothing more than how much 'Beef and Butter sell for the Pound'12 and prayed for a letter from his illustrious correspondent to help shatter his ennui.
  The following letters of Lord Orrery from Kerry were not published by Lady Cork and Orrery in the two volumes of Papers
7. Papers i, 113.
8. Ibid., 119. She was Lady Henrietta Hamilton, third and youngest daughter of the first earl of Orkney. Her body was sent back to England and buried on Sept. 18 at Taplow, Bucks. (The complete peerage X, 423).
9. Papers i, 130. Dr Edward Barry was regius professor of physics at T.C.D. 1754-61; M.P. for Charleville and created a baronet in 1775 (Dict. nat. biog., Complete baronetage V, 384). For an excellent description of his article see C. P. Curran, Dublin decorative plasterwork (London 1967) 43-4.
10. Papers i, 131.
11. Ibid., 133.
12. Ibid., 134.
48	THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
though she reproduced one to Dr Barry written from Dingle, where his Lordship jokes about the wisdom of his favourite dog Hector comfortably remaining in Cork rather than fraternising with the 'Yahoes of Kerry'. 13 It seemed therefore worthwhile editing and reproducing these unknown letters in full. 14 They are addressed to Orrery's confidante and legal advisor, Councillor Kempe, who was to die three years later in 1738.15
  I am much indebted to Harvard College Library, who possess the Orrery letters, for their permission to publish this series and I have attempted to identify most of the persons and places in the footnotes. I have used Jeremiah King's County Kerry, past and present (Dublin [1931]) for tracing some of the placenames and I am also indebted to the Editor for assistance in locating others. I reproduce a few more of Lord Orrery's sarcastic comments on the early eighteenth-century Irish scene at the end of this correspondence which so vividly records an expedition to the wildest ends of what Dr Smith called, referring to Kerry, 'a kind of Terra Incognita to the greater part of Europe'.16

1
To John Kempe Esq.
Dingle: 17th August 1735 Sunday
I begin this letter without any Regard to the post-day, but merely as I have Leisure. You see by its Date how far I am arriv'd in my Territories of Kerry. We left Egmonte on Monday, & stay'd at Killarny all Tuesday to see the Llaugh there. This Llaugh is one of the Beauties of Nature, exclusive of Art; of which She may justly be very proud. It is a vast Lake of Water, in which between forty & fifty little Islands, all cover'd with wild Evergreens, stand erect. The high Mountains, that are its Boundaries, are likewise cover'd, in the same Manner, with Arbutus, Oak, Holly & Yew. In the Midst of one of the Islands, Ross Castle, an old venerable Building, rears its Head. Eccho lives in the Woods; & the Musick of a Pack of Hounds, chasing a Stag up & down
13. Ibid., 134-5.
14. The spelling, punctuation and capitalisation of the originals have been retained here.
15. Papers ii, 150.
16. Smith, op. cit., iv.
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	49
 the almost perpendicular Hills, made a Harmony much more agreeable to the Ears than one of Handel's best Chorus's. We din'd under an Arbutus, by a Riverside, & a Violin in Concert with a Drum sent the Bumpers of Wine with great Pleasure down the Throats of some of my Companions. At Night we return'd to Killarny, where I slept at Lord Killmere's House,17 & lay on Wensday at Mr Godfrey's the High Sherriff's. 18 At Mr Godfrey's Nothing more extraordinary happen'd than my being ask'd, & indeed forc'd, to stand Godfather to his Daughter; 19 who was unfortunately born about three Weeks before my Evil Stars led me thither. As it is my Business, so it is my Desire, to avoid all unneccessary Expences: but, behold! sinfull as I am, I was oblidg'd to answer even for a Female's abjuring the tempting Lusts of the Flesh; to the great satisfaction of the Nurses & Midwives. From Godfrey's I set out by water to a place call'd Inch: Here I was met by an infinite Number of my Kerry-Tenants, who seem'd to go out beyond their shores to meet Me. They attended my honourable Person to One Mr Hussey's,20 who holds a Farm of Twelve pounds, twelve shillings a Year under Me. He is, tho' a Roman Catholick, a most excellent Tenant: His Lease is but for three Lives; Nevertheless, He has improv'd his Land after the English Manner. His House21 is most sweetly scituated, near a delightfull River; & well shelter'd from the Winds by a spreading
17. Valentine Browne, third Viscount Kenmare (1685-1736) (Smith, ibid., 49; E. MacLysaght, The Kenmare manuscripts (Dublin 1942)
18. William Godfrey. He was a J.P. in 1736, on the Kerry Grand Jury in 1747, and High Sheriff in 1753 (M. Hickson, Selections from old Kerry records [1st series] (London 1872) 261-4). Burke's Peerage states that he was the eldest son of John Godfrey of Bushfield and he married Elizabeth, daughter of the Rev. Richard Downing, and had no male issue. He was the uncle of Sir William Godfrey, first baronet.
19. Possibly Arabella, Godfrey's eldest daughter, who married Francis Drew, M.D.
20. Edward Hussey of Ardimore (name appears later in the correspondence). Probably identical with Edmund Hussey, son of the Walter Hussey of Castlegregory who was killed at the Castle of Minard in 1649 by the Cromwellians. He was known as Ned Hussey, for in McLysaght, op. cit., 425 there is 'A Pastoral Elegy on the supposed death of Ned Hussey, who was for some time thought to have been torn to pieces by MacCarthy More's hounds on one of his annual tours round the Lake of Killarney'. It dates from about 1750 and the 'tour' was given him as a penance for rape. This Edward or Edmund had three sons of whom the eldest, Thomas, was styled 'Thomas Hussey FitzEdmund', late Ardmore, Co. Kerry, now of Dublin, in his will proved 2 June 1752. (For further particulars see Hickson, 1st series, 171-3; 2nd series (London 1874) 248-50.)
21. Ardimore, Ardmore or Ardamore, near Lispole.
50	THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
Hill that stands at a proper Distance from it. His Lady22 is a most hospitable Person, an admirable Housewife, & one who excells in the Pastry & Dairy Trade. Few, either like the Husband or Wife, are to be found in this Country. — You will find the Denomination of the Land, Ardimore; 23 for, by this Time, I hope, you have the Rent-roll, (tho' not a perfect one) which I sent by Mr Richards. 24 We left honest Hussey's late in the Evening, & arriv'd at Dingle about Nine at Night. I am lodg'd at the House of Mr Fitzgerald, sirnam'd, I know not why, the Knight of Kerry.25
  He is a Gentleman very happily turn'd for my Way of Thinking, humane, sensible, & agreeable: He abhorrs the Hhuynums of the Land as much as I do; &, methinks, I want only your Company to make my Happiness compleat. -- But, to pursue my Diary. — I have now seen all the Plotts belonging to Me, in, & very near, Dingle. Those in the town are very small; in Number four or five; &, except Dingle park, which is just by, there is Nothing worth describing to You: & of This, in the Course of our Correspondence, you shall hear more. — The Proposals made to Me are very Numerous: they are coming in, every day; I give a general Answer, 'That I am come to settle Bounds, & receive Proposals; which I will consider of at my Leisure.' Yesterday, I settled the Boundaries of a little land just without the farther Gate of the Town: & toMorrow, I ride to Ballinacourty,26 to settle some Disputes there.
22. Not identified in Hickson (1874) 248.
23. See 21.
24. Presumably an Irish lawyer, for Lord Orrery mentions him in a letter from Cork 5 August 1735 : 'We are by the presence of Mr Richards, entirely victorious. Out of Eighteen Ejectments, tryed at Limerick, Tralee, and Corke, not one was given against me' (Orrery letters, Harvard College Library).
25. John FitzGerald, knight of Kerry, b. 1706, married 12 April 1732 Margaret daughter of the Rt Hon Joseph Deane, Lord Chief Baron of the Irish Exchequer, by his wife Margaret, daughter of the Hon Henry Boyle, second son of the first earl of Orrery. The knight's wife was therefore a distant cousin of the author of these letters. The knight died of a fever at the age of 35 in 1741. His epitaph in Latin is recorded in Smith, op. cit., 178, while the tablet with the full inscription is preserved in St James's church, Dingle. A translation of some of the lines reads as follows:
Remarkable for the sweetness of his disposition And the purity of his morals.
He was beautiful in countenance,
Benevolence was in his heart, and truth in his words.
He was upright, gentle, and agreeable, every
Acquaintance was a friend, not one an enemy
26. A parish to the west of Aunascaul.
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	51
Nothing but my Presence could put a final Determination to these affairs; & from henceforward no more Doubts of that sort shall arise; for We will annex Maps to All the New leases. Thus far I have finish'd on Sunday Night; I shall continue this Epistle till Wensday; when the Post will force it out of my Hands, for I would have you know every step I take. It is now Monday, the 18th, but such a horrible day, that We durst not even thrust our Heads out of Dores: the Journey, therefore, to Ballinacourty, is put off till Friday. I must observe to you, that the Weather, contrary to its usual Method, has hitherto been very favourable to Us: so that I may hear with Chearfullness this Day's Disappointment. I inclose to You an abstract of my Marriage Settlement; 27 by Which, at one short View, you will see my Powers. — I likewise inclose a Case laid before Callaghan,28 in Relation to the Agreement, which Mr Boyle,29 Mr Stannard,30 & Mr Crotty,31 drew me into with Badham.32 1 fear, my Hands are too closely tied up for Me to hope to get loose; nor must Badham suspect that I have any such Thoughts. If it must be perfected, bad as it is, the sooner tis brought to a Conclusion, the better. For the whole Universe, I would not have been the Author of such an Agreement: & let me lose ever so much by it, I humbly thank God, I do not lose my Integrity, nor the just Pride & Happiness of an honest heart.
  I am now return'd, late on Tuesday Evening, from settling some Disputes between Me, & the Knight of Kerry, on a Common adjoining to the Lands of Ballyhae, & Ballynahigg.33 They are
27. 'My Armour is made of Parchment, My Head-Piece and Breast-Plate are, my Mother's Marriage Settlement' (Papers i, 113).
28. Elsewhere called by Orrery 'Counsellor Kalaan' and about whom he wrote on 1 July 1735: 'A Murrain on Counsellor Kalaan that will not suffer me to indulge myself half enough in his Company. Lawyers are as great Enemies to Freedom and Pleasure as Monks and Hermits are: Prose, and the dullest Prose, is their profit, They abhor Poetry and all its Professors (Papers i, 131).
29. Probably his cousin Henry Boyle, speaker of the Irish House of Commons, later created earl of Shannon. He managed Lord Burlington's Irish Boyle estates. 30. Eaton Stannard, later recorder of Dublin.
31. Andrew Crotty, Lord Burlington's Irish agent in London. Various letters from him about the Boyles' Irish estates survive amongst the Shannon manuscripts now on deposit at the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland.
32. See 5.
33. 'The lands of Ballyshea, Ballinahig . . . Emmelagh and Lattimore', are listed in a lease of 1707 for 31 years made by Charles, fourth earl of Orrery, and his mother Mary, dowager countess, with Captain Edmund Ferriter (see Mac Lysaght, op. cit., 340). Ballyhae is a mile west of Dingle and Ballynahig is probably Ballinasigh outside Dingle to the northeast.
	52	THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
adjusted for ever, to our mutual satisfaction: A Ditch is to be drawn; & we will say with the poet,
— Sunt certi denique Fines,
Quos ultra transire nefas.34
I have likewise given up half an Acre of Land, (in Dispute betwixt Me & Mr Mullins,35 on Rathneveige;)36 which, certainly, did not belong to Me. We have also exchanged some Bitts of Land, in which I have been the Gainer. — Thus you have the important Transactions of the day; which concludes, as all the Days of my
Life will conclude, with my being
Yours most faithfully, Orrery
2
To John Kempe Esq.
Dingle, 20th August 1735
When shall I know Mankind! When shall I arrive at that Knowledge of this wicked World, as to be slow in giving a good Character of any Man! The Upright, the honest Mr Hussey, who yesterday appear'd to Me in the fairest Light, is now become an Angel of Darkness. — Late last Night, after I had finished my Letter to You, Watt. Goulde37 brought me the Original, of which this is an exact Copy.
34. Horace, Sylva 1, 1, 106.
35. William Mullins of Burnham (1691-1761). His son took the title of Baron Ventry at the Union. The family changed the name to de Moleyns in 1841 and the second Baron Ventry presented a memorial to the Viceroy in 1824 setting forth that he was anxious to change the title of Ventry to that of Lord Baron Burnham of Burnham, Co. Kerry 'inasmuch as it [Ventry] is obnoxious to a disagreeable and unpleasant interpretation in continental languages, and would expose memorialist to contempt and ridicule when travelling abroad' (Complete baronetage XII, part ii, 239).
36. Raheenyhouig, a townland in the parish of Dingle in the Burnham demesne. 37. Walter Goulde or Goolde seems to have been Lord Orrery's general factotum. 'Watt Goulde will be my running Footman' (Papers i, 172). He seems to have eventually double-crossed his master for Lord Orrery states in 1746 'Goulde has given you an account of Crothy's death, he is gon to visit his friend Badham', and goes on to mention frauds he had committed with the wicked Badham (see note 31; Papers ii, 221). They must have patched up their disagreement for in the collection of Captain T. M. McGlinchey (Naas, County Kildare) there is a copy of A collection of letters of the 1st earl of Orrery (Dublin 1743) inscribed 'Lord Orrery gives a set of his great grandfather's letters to his friend Wat Goolde this 13th day of April 1749'.
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	53
To Mr Walter Goulde, in Dingle,
19th August 1735
Dear Sir,
  My son Thomas38 & Mr Peter Trant39 having given in Proposals for my Lord Orrery's Lott of Balliferriter,40 Blasques,41 & Earl's Quarter,42 dated the 18th Instant; & as They may have Occasion for your Favour that Way, & in several Lawsuits, wherein they may hereafter probably be involv'd; &, as I believe, they have bid the utmost for this Lott, & that my Advice to them is that my Lord should see they exceed any other Bidder, I hope, you'll be so kind as to recommend them to the said Farmes; & upon that Account, if the said Proposals be accepted by my Lord, I do hereby oblidge Myself to pay you one hundred pounds Sterling as soon as the same shall be sign'd by my Lord. Not that I intend in the least, that by this Means my Lord's Rents should be lessen'd, but that their Right of preferment may be represented by you to his Lords in which I expect the Favour of your Assistance, as being,
Your humble Servant Edward Hussey
  This is a farther Proof, if we needed any, of Watt's Integrity. The Truth is, the Agents of the Earls of Orrery have been so long us'd to extort Money from the Tenants, that they think They must go on in the old Road of Bribery, in Order to succeed. — Old Hussey confesses, he has an excellent Bargane in Ardimore; for which, probably, Badham got a large Fine. But we keep this last piece of Corruption a Secret, till a proper Time to declare it. I do not yet send you the Proposals that have been given in to Me, because I expect more every day, & they are not sorted, nor in Order. My Mind is so continually upon the stretch, that I can scarce sleep o'Nights: Now is the Crisis of my Fate! Heaven & all good stars assist Me! I have been this day to view the Blasques, Earl's Quarter, & Ballyferriter: the Two first are in the parish of
38. See note 20.
39. Peter Trant married a daughter of Edward Ferriter and was the great grandfather of Major General Sir Nicholas Trant who captured Coimbra in 1816 (see Samuel MacCarthy, 'The Trant family', Kerry Arch. Mag. 3 (1914) 22).
40. A townland and village in the parish of Dunurlin.
41. The Blasket islands in the parish of Dunquin.
42. In the parish of Dunquin.
54	THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
 Dunqueen, which is divided into four parts: Mullins's Quarter, one; Ferriter's Quarter is another; Blasques & Earl's Quarter, which Both belong to Me, make up the Four. Mullins's Land & mine is very much intermixt & entangled; the Grounds are perfectly checquer'd like a Draught-board: notwithstanding which, there are no Disputes of Bounds between Us. A large Common of, I beleive, near a thousand Acres, belongs to Us Both; of which most of the Land is but indifferent. It reaches to the very farthest Western point of Hibernia, & ends the Bounds in a horrid precipice, dreadfull even to think of. — The Blasques are about nine Islands in the Sea, five of which are habitable for Cattle; but, indeed, there's but One, wherein any human Creature lives. In This I saw some Tillage & a few Cabins, from whence, during the Time I was looking at the Island, some poor Wretches ventured into a Boat with Rabbits for Sale. Nothing, sure, but Necessity, could force 'em to trust to so tempestuous a Sea; the Sight of which shock'd me so much that I hasten'd to Ballyferriter; but not without leaving my hearty Prayers for the RabbitMerchants. Ballyferriter, as well as Blasques, & Earl's Quarter, was formerly held by Capt. Edmond Ferriter;43 a Man, who seems to have made it the whole Business of his life to encroach upon other people's Land. He was ever fighting for Bounds, & in the Midst of Ballyferriter has laid Claim to such little parcells of Land, as seem'd, I presume, most convenient for him: to which, his successors, say, He had a Right of Inheritance by King Charles the Second's Letter. None of my Family thought it worth their while to contend with this Heroe; & have left That, as well as many other Burthens, upon Me: but the land will not sett near so well, whilst these Encroachments are upon it. Since Capt. Edmond Ferriter's Death, the Lease is enjoy'd by his three Sons in Law, Mr Trante,44 Mr Odonnoough,45 & Mr MacCrohone;46 but the Brother of the Deceas'd is at Law with them for all the
43. Presumably Edward Ferriter, who died early in 1732. His will and affairs are published in MacLysaght, op. cit., 339-40. The estate was worth E400 a year and Lord Kenmare was residuary legatee. He may have been a son of the poet, Pierce Ferriter.
44. See 39.
45. Thomasina Ferriter married Duff O'Donoghue of Glenflesk. Their daughter Mĺire ni Duibh, married Dönall M6r O'Connell of Carhan. A daughter of these, Eileen Dubh Ni Chonaill, wrote the poem Caoine Airt Ui Laoire, while Eileen's brother, Morgan, was father of Daniel, the Liberator (information from Basil O'Connell); cork Examiner 6 Jan. 1878.
46. Joseph McCrohan, who married Mary Ferriter.
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	55
Lands of Inheritance & Leasehold that belong'd to the Noble Captain. I fear, I shall have Occasion to mention this Brother, (Richard Ferriter,)47 hereafter; in the mean While, I will only tell You, that He is a very impertinent & a very silly Fellow, & bears a despicable, & a bad, Character at the same Time. The View of these Estates has taken me up much Time; I have been seven hours on Horseback, & by a Fall have sprain'd my Thumb, which makes writing not very easie to Me. — The Knight of Kerry has made a Ball, & is now dancing below stairs; but my Business is my Diversion, & I excuse Myself from all other Amusements. To morrow, We are to view other Lands; of which I will send you as exact, tho', I hope, not so tedious an Account. Behold, the Morrow is come! And having set out about Ten o'Clock, the first part of my Estate that I saw (& saw with Reluctance,) was Ballinleige,48 part of Yeates's Lease, to be confirm'd & turn'd into Fee-farm by my late cursed Agreement with Badham. Wherever my Eyes meet any part of my Estate, belonging to that Mirror of all Agents, I look at the Land with vast Regret; & think in secret more than I dare trust to this paper. The next Ground We view'd was Killquane,49 the Tenant of which is Dominick Rice,50 a most hospitable Person, who treated Us with Wine & Cakes sufficient to allay the Hunger of the Curate & Lady Anne.51 From
Killquane we went to view Shanakiel;52 a piece of Land, that, with some Plotts & a Tenement in the Town of Dingle, is held by Peirce Rice, Heir, Assignee, & Executor to the Dominick Rice who is number'd among the Dead. This Lease is out the 25th of March next; & as Shanakiel is at the Distance of three, or rather Six Miles From Dingle, I intend to let it apart from the Tenement now concluded in the Lease. All the Tenements, &
47. I have not traced his family.
48. A townland in the parish of Ventry.
49. A parish immediately west of Mount Brandon.
50. The Rices like the Trants were an old Dingle family (see Hickson (1872) 327-9) though this account does not identify the Rices mentioned here. Some of the first earl of Cork's land-transactions with a Richard Rice in 1614 through his local agent Dermot O'Dingle of Ballinacourty (a Moriarty) are reproduced by the Rev. Sir Henry L. L. Denny, Bart, 'Some Kerry records', The County Kerry Society Journal 1936-37 (Beverley 1938) 11-13.
51. 'The curate and Lady Anne' were a standing joke between Orrery and Kemple. The curate was John Sandford, whom Orrery nominated his chaplain. 'The Curate of Shoreditch . . is no more' Lord Orrery wrote in 1739 'and perish'd with him Puns, quirks and quibbles innumerable' (Papers i, 258). 'Lady' Anne was his mad mother (ibid., 107, 252).
52. townland in Kilquane parish.
56	THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
waste plotts in the Town, I design to let in one Lease; which will advance my Rents considerably more, than if they were to go with different Parcells of Ground as aforetime. And here I must observe to you, that I never saw a more dismal Country since I came into the World. It seems, as if Nature had brought forth a Monster, part of whose hideous Forme Shanakiel & Killquane made up. The Roads are shocking & dangerous; not a Tree, nor a House, to be seen; Nothing but hideous Rocks and black Boggs to be view'd on every Side. So that You may imagine, We were not very fond of staying here; but hastening from a Place, which I hope never to behold again. We pass'd thro' Emelagh53 & Lattimore,54 two Denominations in Redman Ferriter's Lease, now tenanted by the Knight of Kerry. The Land here is good, & the Country better improv'd, the Want of Trees excepted, than in any places I have seen today. Thus ends my Journal of the 21st August. — And now begins the 22nd, in Rain and Storms: Our Journey, therefore to Ballinacourty is a second Time stopt. ToMorrow, I hope, is a more smiling day; but this Letter must away to the Post to Night, & is the Last I shall write to you from hence, having fixt my Departure for next Monday. I am in hopes, from these prolix Letters, & from the Rentroll, You will be pretty well Master of my Estate in Kerry; tho' I have yet Much of it to see. However, I cannot venture into that Part, which lies in Valencia, where John Connell's55 & Mr Maggie's56 Farms are: The Weather is too uncertain, & the Roads there very dangerous. Connell's Farme is yet to be survey'd; it is represented to Me by some as a very great Thing; by Others as not near so valueable. If it were possible, I would see it; but as I must go by Sea, & in a bad Boat, this boisterous season will debarr me of that satisfaction.
  It is an Age since I heard from You, or any of my Friends, The Last Letters, I receiv'd from England, met me at Egmonte this day Fortnight. Great Packets will, probably, meet me at Bally-
53. A townland in Dingle parish.
54. Lattive More, Ballyferriter.
55. Possibly John O'Connell of Derrynane, who died in 1741, great-grandfather of the Liberator (see Mrs Morgan J. O'Connell, The last colonel of the Irish Brigade I (London 1892) 48). The O'Connell family leased lands from the Cork and Orrery estate in Smith's time (Smith, op. cit., 94).
56. Probably a son of Captain Theobald Magee of Port Magee in the barony of Iveragh, who died at Lisbon in 1727, by his wife Brigid, daughter of Sir Thomas Crosbie of Ardfert (see Hickson (1874) 169, 311).
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	57
norte,57 where I propose to be about the 1st of September. From Ballynorte, I go to Charleville, & about Michaelmas, propose to be at Corke: where I shall stay till I set out for Dublin. I am,
My Dear Sir Harry,
Entirely Yours,
Orrery.
3
To John Kempe Esq.
Traiee: 27th Aug. 1735
  Notwithstanding my Resolution of leaving Dingle on Monday, the Weather confin'd me there till yesterday Morning. We set out from thence about Eleven in the Morning & went over a prodigious Tract of mountainous Land, all which was my own Estate. There were infinite Beauties in the different Prospects; but from Comeduffe58 we were oblig'd to traverse a Mountain on Foot, which took us up near four hours, & vies in height with the Alpes. I was wrong when I sent you Word, Magee's Farme was in Valencia: It is on this Side the Vast Mountain we cross'd over. His Lease is for ever, which makes me little sollicitous about a Dispute between him & Mr Cashe1159 for Land said to be mine. Tomorrow, I shall endeavour to settle some Disputes betwixt me & Colonel Hassett.60 1 wish, They may be so easily adjusted, as were Those, on Saturday last, betwixt me & the Knight of Kerry. The Knight gave up One Piece: I gave up Another piece; & for the Third (a Danish Fort) we toss'd up Cross or Pile: which I had the good Fortune to win. I must make some Visits to Sir
57. Near Askeaton in Co. Limerick, the seat of William Taylor, M.P. for Askeaton 1729-46. The Boyles had an interest in this property. 'Will' Taylor was a great friend of Orrery and there is an account of his death in 1746 in the Papers ii, 210-12. The eventual co-heiresses of this family married the second Baron Massy and the second earl of Carrick. The house no longer survives.
58. In the parish of Ballinvoher, north of Aunascaul.
59. Possibly George Cashell, Tipperary, who married Sarah daughter of George Rowan of Mahara, Co. Derry. Her sister, Mary, married William Mullins (note 36). He was the grandfather of Rowan Cashell (see J. F. Fuller 'Trial of Rowan Cashel', cork Hist. and Arch. soc. Jn. 3 (1901) 149, 164; 9 (1903) 69).
60. Col. John Blennerhassett of Ballyseedy, known as 'the great Colonel John', M.P. for Kerry from 1709 till his death in 1769 and called 'the Father of the Irish House of Commons' ('Parliamentary Representation of Kerry' in Kerry Mag. 3 (1856) 172).
58	THE KNIGHT OF GLIN
Maurice Crossby,61 Col. Hassett, Col. Denny,62 & Lord Kerry: 63 & then I shall hasten to Ballynorte; from whence You shall certainly hear of Me. This will be sufficient, dear Sir Harry, to tell You how far I have got over the most dangerous part of my journey. Chear up your Spirits: Video meliora.
Orrery.

  When Orrery arrived in Ballynorte in Co. Limerick he immediately settled down and wrote to Swift exclaiming that 'the happy Israelites have not more Joy whether They escap'd from Pharoah and his Hosts, than I have on my arrival from Kerry'.64 A month later Swift wrote back quipping that 'you have affronted Pharoah grievously by your odious comparison of his Aegyptian Majesty to the Kerry Nimrods',65 and soon after one notices a petulant note creeping into their correspondence.
  The memory of his trip and the boredom of life in Ireland in general, is echoed in a later letter to Lady Sandwich at Paris, for he is reminded of her good company and the sophistication of continental life, miserably grumbling
that the Mac-Mahones and the Mac-Slaines appear to me Creatures not of human Race. They talk to me of Leases in Kerry, and I languish after the Champs Elises de Paris. They show me Plans of Potato Gardens, and I am roving in Thought midst the Groves of Versailles . . . could I bury Lady Sandwich in Oblivion, I might hope to reconcile myself to
	Ireland	66
61. Sir Maurice Crosbie, Ardfert, M.P. for Kerry, created Baron Brandon in 1758. He married Lady Anne FitzMaurice, daughter of the first earl of Kerry, and died in 1762.
62. Colonel Arthur Denny, M.P. for Kerry 1727-42. Married to Lady Arabella FitzMaurice, sister of Lady Anne (note 61). These last three totally controlled the parliamentary representation of the county until Col. Denny's death in 1742. 63. Thomas FitzMaurice, first earl and twenty-first baron of Kerry, who died in 1741.
64. Papers i, 135. In the Orrery letters at Harvard College Library another letter to Kempe echoes these sentiments: 'Wellcome me, my dear Friend out of the Land of Egypt, the Kingdom of Bondage . He goes on to talk of his Kerry rentroll and the proposals he received saying: 'I have given no answer to any of them; but have prov'd a dumb oracle to all my worshippers'.
65. Williams, op. cit., 396.
66. Papers i, 142.
	LORD ORRERY'S TRAVELS IN KERRY, 1735	59
  Years later he did reconcile himself to Ireland and settled down happily in 1738 with a new wife67 at Caledon, Co. Tyrone, where he occupied himself in laying out an elaborate garden. However, his tastes for landscape was fired by his Killarney visit, for in 1736 he was still enthusing about its beauties and proposing an expedition there with his friend the Virtuoso Dr Clayton, bishop of Cork :
There is a Llough worth a thousand burning Rivers. There are Hills that will employ our visive Faculties during the Time We stay. They vie in Beauty with Libanus, in Height with the Apenines: The ever verdant Woods nourish innumerable Choiristers: The feather Tribe shall testifye their Joy at your Arrival by their Songs. Earth will look gay: Phoebus will smile: The lordly Stag shall be rouz'd from his Covert. The Nimble footed Hound shall pursue Him. The prowling Fox shall be laid prostrate on the Earth, and Shoals of Salmon shall court your Lordship's Bait, and be proud to fall victims to your ivory Rod. These, these are the Pleasures of Killarney, or if you will have more regal Honours, King Sullivan shall attend You in his Boat, and Lord FitzMaurice salute You with Canon from his Castle.68
  We do not hear of any further wish to visit the harsher and more savage glories of the Dingle peninsula and it is curious to note that during that unpopular investigation of land titles, Lord Orrery only once mentioned an antiquity — the Danish Fort that he luckily won. A Gallarus, a Kilmalkeder or a stray clochĺn passed him by completely.
  'The Mac-Mahones and the Mac-Slaines' must have kept him far too busy, though his concern for the rabbit merchants shows that he was not without humanity.
67. The heiress, Margaret, daughter of John Hamilton, 'one of the largest fortunes in Europe' (Complete peerage X, 423).
68. Papers i, 196. Lord FitzMaurice, eldest son of the earl of Kerry (note 64), was the governor of Ross Castle. 'King Sullivan' is a facetious reference to the Irish peasant's pride in his regal antecedents.
