166 Rcrry the Eigh/ccnlh 
voted about two days before the Recess grounded on two petitions, that the one the from sum of the ZCounty 250 might Kerry be from levied the among Romish them Inhabitants towards rebuild-praying
 ing the old Fort at Valentia, it costing them that year no less than L 1000 in robberies, the other from the city of Cork, Mayor, Sheriffs Aldermen and Freemen, setting forth their losses for want of the Fort which for situation and strength depth of water is if not the most convenient spot yet at least gives place to no harbour in the Queen's dominions. I have given a Memorial of the same to the Parliament of England, but not being willing to spare the cash or time of soliciting am ignorant of the success. The Barrack Master's report returned to the Barrack Master generall by order of the late government, I have sent a copy of to the Rev. Mr. Chamberlain last post, who is rector of the barony of Iveragfi, of which I then acquainted my Lord Kerry whom I always found zealous to promote so great a good. I likewise proposed to my Lord that if the Z250 were advanced, I would undertake the work, or rather than fayle doe it at my own expense, if the Command of an independant Company of fifty men with cannon were given me. But that which gives your Excellencies this present trouble, is a message ment this day of received one Lamarre, from Iveragh a French that lieutenant unless I of procured Sullivan's the who enlarge-has been taken prisoner in Dingle, all I have in Iveragh, my only place of residence, shall be burned, plundered and destroyed. The Country it is true, are by law Iyable to make it good, but are already encumbered as much as they are able to discharge. In the Barony where I live I affirm that the robbery of money often sur-
if mounts Excies the said to their consider Lamarre rents of as may some I hear be redress sett and at believe. for lybertie, these great I there humbly oppressions are beg five of or yourandsix
more remaining in the County goal. If his Grace be arrived it is the humble request of many hundreds that this may be laid before him. Vor. Excies most obdt faithfull servant
FRANCIS BREWSTER.
had teers would A been witty seemed never blown Englishman take to have up steps or arrived of to made modern prevent at the something times victim accidents' said of of a to that a collision. trains similar railway until judgment The companiesa Bishoppriva-in
the case of their imprisoned comrades. Finding that the Tory High Church government •and magistrates were perfectly indifferent as to O'Sullivan the fate of the determined unfortunate to laymen try what of could Killorglin be accomplished and Dingle, Captainfor his friends by the capture and Imprisonment of an Archdeacon. One
commands summer morning crossed the " the Rev. ferry" Dr. at Bland Valentia in obedience to place the to Rev. EpiscopalPhilip Chamberlain (already Rector, according to Mr. Brewster, of the
nerry in the Eighteenth Century. 167
whole barony church of Iveragb of Killmore, consisting which of forms six parishes) so conspicuous in possession a featureof the ancient in the Elizabethan maps of the island. The result of their pastoral visitation is explained in the following petition addressed to Sir Constantine Phipps and General Ingoldsby, Lords Justices " in the absence of the Viceroy :—
The Humble Petition of the Rev. lames Bland, Archdeacon of Aghadoe, and of Philip Chamberlain, Rector of Valentia in n-erry,
Humbly Sheweth, mandate —That from the your Rt. Rev. petitioner Father James in God, Bland Thomas, havingLord
received 
Bishop »ossession of Limerick, of the parish to Church put your of petr Killmore, Philip in Chamberlain the Island of into Valentia,actual
le did in obedience to his lordship's commands accordingly do so on the 20th of May last past, and that then and there your petrs James Bland and Philip Chamberlain were taken prisoners by one Sullivan,
Captain of a leave French to represent privateer to called your La Excies petite that Mtrie. they were Vour treatedpetrs
humbly beg by the said were Captain enlarged, with upon great a humanity, promise that and they after wbuld a night's use theirconfinement utmost endeavours to procure the discharge of three Frenchmen of the said Privateer's crew, Lamarre, Jean Drieda, and Pierre Amanthe who were taken prisoners by the inhabitants of Dingle. Your consideration petrs therefore the encrimplore agenhent your they Excies now stand to take under, into and your to mercifullenlarge
the three aforesaid Frenchmen in exchange for them, and your Excies will preserve the faith of your petrs inviolable and oblige them for ever to pray 
JAMES BLAND
PHILIP CHAMBERLAIN.
It would almost appear as if the prayer of this extraordinary
petition Imprisoned was pirates. granted, From for we the hear first, nothing they had more had of a Sullivan few friends and andthe sympathizers amongst of the the Catholic government Irish of in Iveragh totally and disregarding Corcaguiny,the but the unwise policy means of defence on the coast, compelled all appeal for military those or baronies to make the best terms they could the inhabitants of with a foe they were powerless (against indeed to oppose. almost The . every laws form against of Irishthe Irish woollen trade, industry) imposed the Keart by of that the spirit English of commercial oak, had greed beggared which the is Irishthe canker at government and people. There A pamphlet was no written money in left 1729 to describespay the necessary military expenses. 
the universal despondency in respect to trade. Men of all degrees give up the thought of improving our commerce and conclude that
168 Kerry b4c Eightecnth 
 the restrictions under which we lie are so unsurmountable, that arty attempt on that head would be fruitless." The author of an interesting work on the " Social Ilistory of the Southern Counties of England gives some curious details showing the way in which the same spirit of narrow, commercial greed worked in England and hampered its prosperity. In the reign of William the Third the people of Wiltshire petitioned government to prevent a canal being made from Bath to London on the ground that the arrival of grain from the former city would lower prices in and around Salisbury, and the landowners of Sussex who supplied the metropolis with hay, vegetables petitioned against roads being made from Lincoln, Norfolk and Hertfordshire southwards, lest those counties should interfere with the Sussex monopoly. " Smuggling " says the same writer, was viewed as a venial offence by all west of England people of every degree." The English Treasury and Revenue papers afford ample evidence of this. In Cornwall, Devonshire Somersetshire and Sussex not only the magistrates, but the coast guard officers, connived in the smuggling or as it is called in the Records the " owling trade and employed the Revenue Cutters in landing the " run goods." In Hampshire an " informer who had given the government intelligence of these frauds was taken by the owlers, tied to a stake and flogged to death in the neighbourhood of magistrates and revenue officers who would not or could not interfere. Wrecking was commonly practised in Cornwall and under circumstances of peculiar atrocity in Northumberland and Yorkshire. When this was the state of things in merry England where men sate under their " own vine and fig trees safely looking out on lands which their forefathers had owned since the days of William Rufus, what could be expected in this unhappy island, where for nearly seven centuries not only the native Irish but the English colonists and the mixed race sprung from both, had had to endure all the miseries attendant on ruthless wars and confiscations? The privateers and smugglers who haunted the wild coast of Iveragh and Corcaguiny in the eighteenth century were frequently the forfeiting proprietors of 16SS and related in blood to the Irish or Anglo-Irish
 with who William had been at included the Boyne. in the The Articles hearts of of these Limerick latter or were had true foughtto the mother-country, notwithstanding her step-mother-like conduct in destroying the Irish woollen trade, but it was not in human nature that they should respect those Revenue laws which even their favoured brethren across the channel evaded or openly defied. Valentia and Dingle were the chief haunts of the Munster smugglers. At Valentia, the O'Sullivans aided by a Captain Theobald Magee, a native I believe of the north of Ireland, stored the Mine, brandy and lace high and dry in the caves of the sea shore about Reencaragh. Magee seems to have been a retired officer of King James's army, who after the Boyne became a sailor and commanded a
	Kerry in the Eighlccnlh Century. 	169

merchant ship trading between France, Portugal and Ireland. Ile
acquired secure the some hand property and heart in Cork of Mrs. and Bridget Kerry and Morgell, managed the widow further of toa wealthy Dingle merchant, and the daughter of Sir "l'homas Crosbie by his first wife Bridget 'l'ynte of the ancient Somersetshire family of that name. Saptain Theobald Magee died in Lisbon in 1727 and his widow and children settled at a place in Iveragh which is still known as Port Magee. I shall have more to say about them hereafter, but may here mention what Mr. Froude, when he immortalized Mrs. Bridget Magee the fair smuggler of Iveragh and gave to the world her genealogy was probably unaware of, namely that a clianshil+, as we say in Kerry, if not an acwal Kerry cousinship, existed between himself and the lady and her son in law the Venerable and Rev. Archdeacon Lauder Mrs. Magee was the great great grand aunt Lord of the Chesham, Rt Hon Lord and that Dacre, nobleman's whose wife wife is theis
sister of the present sister of Mr. Froude's niece. En Passant I may add, that a still nearer clianship binds the historian to the redoubtable chief of the Fairesses." It is by no means unlikely that Mrs. Bridget's weakness for smuggling was an inheritance from her west of England blood, since in old times Somersetshire was a very nest of smugglers, the most daring and unscrupulous perhaps in the whore island. In Dingle at the beginning of the eighteenth century the merchant princes' of the illegal trade were, unluckily for one of Mr. Froude's pet theories, two gentlemen descendants of Cromwellian officers, Morgell above mentioned, and George Chinnery, a native I believe of Cork. He had been for some time Surveyor of the Port of Dingle, but he either resigned the office or was dismissed from his post for after 1724 we find him constantly described in the Castle MSS. as a merchant residing in the town, where he appears to have been a virtual if not ostensible Sovereign, possessed of even more influence than the Geraldine lord of the soil. In 1725 a Revenue officer named Brewster Loughlin was sent to keep watch over the smugglers in Kerry. He was a native of Dublin, and the grandson maternally of Sir Francis Brewster, but his paternal grandfather was Captain Richard Loughlin, the Cromwellian grantee ,of Ballydowney, Cahercrohin and Clynie in the barony of Magonihy, forfeited by Florence Mac Dermot Carthy and Elizabeth Stephenson. 'l'he following letter gives an account of Mr. Loughlin's first experiences in Dingle. It is dated November 16th, 1725, and is addressed to the Revenue Commissioners :—
  Ho-N. SIRs—The 12th inst on my road to Dingle, I received an information that there was a parcel of rum and brandy lodged at one Cahill's house of Ballintaggart, within a mile of Dingle, and that it had not paid his Majesty's duty and on the 13th inst I went to Sd Cahill's house and took to my assistance Mr. Donellan the surveyor
178 Kerry 	the Eightccnth 
stage of Kerry life. He was a native of Cork but had innumerable relatives of 'course in Iveragh and Dunkerron the ancient territory of his clan and amongst the O'Donoghues of Glanflesk. In 1719, while exercising the profession of a schoolmaster in Dublin, he had been arrested for having perverted to Roman Catholicism two or three of his pupils, but after a short imprisonment he was set free, on condition of his betaking himself to the Continent and remainin% there for life. In Paris he made the acquaintance of the Princess I) Auvergne, née Fanny Trant, (who figures in Saint Simon's gossipping pages) the daughter of Sir Patrick Trant, King James's Revenue Commissioner. By this lady O'Sullivan, who was growing tired of his exile, was introduced to Horace NValpole, English Ambassador at the Court of France, an acquaintance which he lost no time in turning to account. He drew up and presented to the ambassador a paper (of which unluckily for himself as we shall presently see he retained a rough draft) containing a project for the " effectual service of his British Majesty against the smugglers and privateers on the Coast of Ireland," and this being favourably received he pressed for further interviews. The result of these delicate negotiations was, that the exiled O'Sullivan obtained permission to return to Ireland on condition of his undertaking to worm himself into the secrets ot the Kerry smugglers and recruiters of wild geese" and to live amongst them as a detective or spy. The rest of his adventures I will leave him to relate for himself, by placing before my readers extracts from the document which he forwarded to the Revenue Commissioners in 1729, and which he styles " depositions ready to be sworn " although it is rather a memorial twenty or thirty folios pages in length. It begins with an account of his introduction to Walpole and then continues :—
  Vour Examinant havincr given the Ambassador to his British Majesty convincing demonstrations that your Ext could be very serviceable in hindering the torrent of unlawfull Exports and imports committed by severall masters and merchants on the British coast, procured a passport and departed for Nantes in Brittany, there to embark for Ireland."
  He was taken ill at Nantes, and his voyage was in consequence delayed, but at last in November 1728, he embarked on board the Welcome sloop of Cork, David Long, master.
  " All the Irish vessels in the port of Nantes," he continues, being on the running account and difficult of access for strangers, your Ext. played the Fox, and made the Sd Long sensible that he, the Sd Ext, was then going to Ireland underhand to recruit for the Irish regiments in the French service, and promised the Sd Long to employ him for carrying Sd recruits off, and a great dale more to that purpose, which gave your Ext further room to dive into the transactions of several Irish masters then in the same port. . . . On the 20th
ICcrry in the Eighlccnth Ccn/ury. 179
of Decem, 1728, the Welcome sloop made the S.W. entrance of Valentia Harbour, where having made a signal by hoi-fin. their colours, your Ext deposeth that the Sd vessels were soon joyned by three oarboats, well manned, which your Ext saw one after another part from Reencarragh on the larboard side of the Sd harbour, and from a place now called Port Magee, belonging to Bridget Magee, alias Crosby, widdow to Captain 'l'heobald Magee, or to her and his children, . . and that the said boats having joyned the Sd vessels embarked all the goods and magazeened them in rocks and caverns about the Sd Castle and lands of Reencaragh, and the Sd sloop having completed her landing, she lay moored at Loghan island in Sd harbour, with a small brigantine belonging to said Widow Magee and her children lying alongside her, ready to sail for Nantes with packs of wool without any prohibition . . . and in order to give solne collour to the matter this Ext deposeth that George Magee, gent, of Portmagee aforesaid, did entreat the Sd David Long to remove his vessel towards the N.E. part of the Sd harbour of Valency, because the Coasting sloop belonging to his Brittish Majesty was them arrived, which together with the riding officer and boatmen belonging to the Sd harbour, all admonished the Sd Magee, as your Ext heard the Sd Magee say, because it would give them room of winking more at large at the disembarkment of the Sd wool, to which request of the Sd George Magee the Sd Long did consent, and moored his vessel on the Sd N.E. part of the harbour alongside of Sd Coasting sloop, where they remained together for two or three days, during which time Sd Long openly made sale of about 120 ankers of brandy, without any prohibition from the said Coasting Sloop or from the Riding Officer and Boatmen of his Majesty's service. "
  Matters were thus going on for several days smoothly and merrily in the quiet little cove behind Bray Head—Kerry cousins driving wet bargains and softening the hearts of the Revenue officials over the barrels of Nantes brandy—O'Sullivan the lion of the hour, as a returned exile, a sufferer for the cause of his religion and his country meeting everywhere of course a cead mille' failthe," wild geese and tame geese tumbling readily into his net, when—through an accident such as will not unfrequently happen in hours of convivial excitemenl —a paper, the rough draft of his communication to Walpole, dropped from his pocket on the crowded deck. For a while it lay unnoticed, but at last ah Ivraughan picked it up, and with the intention of returning it to the rightful owner read the address—" To the Right I Ion. Horace Walpole, British Ambassador at the Court of France " Que diablefait-il dans cette ga12re? indeed, he or aught belonging to him. The paper containing the returned patriot's projects for rendering " Effectual Service to the British Crown, and hindering the torrent of Unlawfull Exports," passed from hand to hand. A cloud came over the festive scene. His O'Sullivan blood alone saved him

210	Gcnea/ogical Notices.
fourth year at Madras in 1867, 2. Patterson O'Hara, 3. Georgc. Richard Hickson the third son of Thomas of Gowlane and Frances Hussey md Martha dau of Captain Theobald Magee and had with a dau md . . Pierse of Clanmaurice, two sons who eventually settled in Iveragh and died there unmd.
   Capt. Blennerhassett in his Genealogies (v. 1st vol. p. 76) mentio•s this Richard only of the sons of Thomas and Frances, but this probably arose from the fact, that Richard Hickson was the only member of his family who had at this time married a Protestant and conformed to Protestantism with a real intention of accepting that religion. Capt. Blennerhassett however has on one or two other occasions fallen into a similar error, notably in the case of Sir Edmond FitzGerald of Cloyne (A.D. 1612) one of the most distinguished men of his time and a Kerry landowner who at p. 102 of the Blennerhassett Pedigree is said to have had but one son, whereas the old pedigrees in the British Museum, contemporary records and the Act of Settlement (indisputable authority) prove that he had several. Again in his notice of the Spring family (v. 1st vol. p. 74) Capt. Blennerhassett says that Elizabeth Spring, eldest dau ot Captain Thomas Spring the Elizabethan settler, md Captain James De la Hoyde whereas Sir George Carew, a contemporary and personal acquaintance of Thomas Spring's, says in his Genealogical Notices (Carew MSS. vol. 635, p. 66,) that Elizabeth Spring md " Stephen Hicson of Dingle de Cuishe and that Capt. De La Hoyde was the third husband of her mother Arnabel, dau of Brown of Auny, who had been first md to Apsley. All this however tells little against the general correctness of Capt. Blennerhassett's genealogies, at least with those who have any experience of the difficulties a careful genealogist has to encounter in noticing a number of Irish or Anglo-Irish families, whose members in old times were separated from one another by political and religious strifes and factions. There can be no doubt that Sir George Carew's statement of Elizabeth Spring's marriage written in 1599, while she was living is more correct than Capt. Blennerhassett's written in 1733-6. This Stephen Ilicson was probably the ancestor of the Hicksons of L)ingle and Killorglin, many of whom remained Protestant, but I have been unable to trace the descents from his time to the last century, and can onlv here give what Sir 'Bernard Burke states of the former family. Robert Hickson of Dingle (circa 1756,) md Barbara. Trant and had John who by Ellen Rice had Robert, I)eputv Lieut of Kerry, who md Judith dau of Wm. Murray and had, I. john of the Grove, Dingle, of whom presently, 2. Samuel Murray of Redcliffe died unmd, 3. Robert in Holy Orders md Miss Hewson of Ennismore (v. Geraldine descents) and had issue William (md and has issue) and daus, 4. James of Lansdowne Lodge, Kenmare, L). L. of Kerry md Barbara grandau Of Sir William Godfrey, Bart. and had with other issue John, now of the Privy Council office, London, md, William unmd, James in
	Genealogical Notices.	21 1
Holy Orders unrnd. M.D. md, and several daus, 5. George in Holy Orders md Charlotte Purdon and has several children, 6. Mary md P. B. Hussey of Dingle, 7. Anne md Sir Wm. Cox of Coolcliffe, Wexford, Colonel in the British and General in the Portuguese service.
  John Hickson of tile Grove, I). L., eldest son, md Barbara, dau of Jo%n Mahony of Dromore Castle, and had 1. Robert md Julia Sadleir Bruyére and died leaving a son Albert Robert, present representative of the Hicksons formerly of the Grove, Dingle. 2. Ohn assumed the name of Mahony on inheriting the property of is uncle Richard Mahony. 3. Richard Capt in the 72d regt md and has issue. 4. Margaret md Wm. Norcock and had issue. 5. Barbara md . Bower Post Captain in the R.N. and has issue. 6. Marianne md Charles Blennerhassett of Ballyseedy and had an only son, present owner of Ballyseedy, she md 2dly William Walker Esq. 7. Julia md S. M. Hussey of Edenburn (v. Hussey pedigree.) S. Sarah md Rev. T. S. Henry and has issue.
  THE MAC GILLICVDDVS OF THE REEKS.—The family papers antl genealogy of this ancient Irish Sept, a branch of the O'Sullivans More, having been published in a handsome volume edited by the Rev. Dr. Brady it is unnecessary to give more than a few brief tables of descent here. The maps in the Carew MSS. show the territories of the Sept and they are also marked on the ancient maps of Ortelius (circa 1550) which are carefully treasured in the private department of the British -Museum Library, where however they can be seen by a special order from the courteous librarian Mr. T. W. Jones. The Mac Gillicuddy of Elizabeth's reign md Joan dau of Bishop Crosbie by Joan O' Lalor of Leix, and had with other issue a son Donogh, Colonel in the service of Charles I. who md Mary dau of O'Sullivan More. • He fought under Ormond and Clancarty against the Cromwellians and burned his castle of Bauncloon to prevent its falling into their hands for which he was restored to his estates by Charles Il. whose exile he had shared. (v. Certificates, King's Letter and Letters Patent from the Rolls, given at length in Dr. Brady's volume.) By Mary O'Sullivan More he had with other issue Daniel his heir, who md Margaret Van I)achalaer of Wangenheim in Holland, and had with other issue a son and heir Cornelius, who nyl Catherine dau of Richard Chute of Chute Hall by Charity dau of Arthur Herbert of Currens and Mary Bastable, and had with other issue, Francis great grandfather of the present Mac Gillicuddy of the Reeks, and also LJaniel who by Sophia, dau of Sir Barry L)enny, had, with two daus Mrs. Henry Denny and Mrs. E. Murphy,
  * According to Dr. Brady, but other accounts say that the wife of Donogh Mac Giliicuddy was Inez De Ribeira, a Spaniard. The name of Inez has been in the family from the 17th century.
310	Appendix.
first cousin of Captain James Day Eagar above mentioned was John Il. Eagar of Ballyhar whose dau md Colonel William Purnell C.B. of the 90th regt., son of B. P. Purnell, Stancombe Park, Gloucestershire. Captain Henry Eagar of the 90th regt. had by Emily Lynch a daughter who married Captain Cotton Way (deceased) of the 28th Bombay infantry and had issue.
(PAGE 150.)
  PURCHASING POWER OF MOSEY IN  Ma. caulay, if I remember rightly, says that one pound in 1690 'vvćs equal in value to four in the middle of the present century. In 1774 Arthur Young notes the prices in and around Tralee as follows, salmon three-halfpence per lb., potatoes IS. 6d. per cwt., lobsters rd. each. The highest rent paid for land around Tarbert was 14.s. per acre, but it sold generally at from sixteen to eighteen years' purchase. I have elsewhere quoted the account given by Young of the extraordinary rise in the value of land in North Kerry between 1700 and 1777. (v. 1st vol. p. 163.) In 1822, as appears by a Report furnished to Government by Lord Branden, wages of labourers round Castle Island had risen to sixpence or tenpence a day wth diet, twelve oz. of bread sold for 2d., potatoes at twopencehalfpenny per stone, milk one penny three farthings per quart. In 1848 good meat was sold in Tralee at 4d. per lb., fresh butter at rod. or a shilling per lb., in' 1866 meat had risen to 6d. per lb., it is' now rod. or IS. per lb. Salmon sells at IS. or IS. 6d. per lb., but it is almost all packed in ice and sent off by rail to the fishmongers of Dublin and London. The best potatoes are Sd. or IS. a stone, milk 4d. per quart, butter (best fresh) sells at IS. 3d. or IS. 4d. per lb. Labourers' wages are now generally from nine to twelve shillings a week with diet, wealthy landlords occasionally pay as much as fifteen or eighteen shillings in spring or harvest. Not a few of these latter are honourably distinguished by their exertions to improve the condition of their labourers. Mr. F. B. Chute of Chute Hall has built neat cottages for his workmen, Mr. W. T. Crosbie has done a good deal in the same way at Ardfert, and Mr. Mahony of Dromore Castle has several times obtained prizes from an English society for encouraging the improvement of labourers' dwellings. The fann houses and cottages on the Marquis of Lansdown@s estate around Kenmare are said to be models in their way. The Marchioness during her autumn visits presidgs at the school feasts and examinations of the pupils in the national school at I)irreen, in which it is but fair to say Mr. Froude and his family during their stay are also reported to have taken a most kindly interest. The admirable schools erected near Kenmare by the Venerable Roman Catholic Archdeacon of Kerry are almost as well known in England as in Ireland. Archdeacon O'Sullivan has presided for nearly fifty years over the parish of Kenmare, the central
	Appendix.	311
district of the once wide territory of his ancient Sept, and throughout his long life has been most deservedly respected by men of all creeds and classes in his native county. Ilis exertions for his flock in the disastrous famine year were immense, and saved innumerable lives.
(PAGE 169.)
  CAPTAIN THEOBALD MAGEE.—His knowledge and experience of the running account" (7. ante p. 178) between the Nantes and Dingle merchants probably recommended him to the notice of the widow. - In his made at Lisbon 9th December, 1724, (proved 7th November, 1727, in Ireland) he mentions his farms of htradbally and Valentia and one in the county Cork, his sons David, Theobald and George, and his daughters whom he enjoins " should not be altered " from the religion in which he " had brought them up." Testator concludes ' ' I desire the High Mass and the Office for the Dead to be sung in the Irish Dominican College of Lisbon for my soul, as likewise twenty private masses afterwards for the said College at 120 reals charity for each masse." His executors are to be his well beloved wife Bridget Magee, alias Crosby, Parson Francis Lauder, Sir Maurice Crosbte and M r. Philip Morgell." It would seem as if Magee never returned to Ireland after 1724 when this will was made, he may possibly have entered the monastery as a brother by double dispensation from his wife and the Pope. The Crosbie connexions were probably not averse to his going into retreat for the remainder of his life, but they set small store by his commands or counsel as to his children's religion, for it appears by the Conformist Rolls that in July, 1725, George and Theobald Magee (who died s.p.) were received into the Church of England and as their sister Bridget md Archdeacon Lauder no doubt she was " converted " too. Another sister md Richard Ilickson whose name appears in the list of jurors on Arthur Crosbie's trial (v. ante p. 99). David Magee emigrated to the Azores.
(PAGE 184.)
  JAMES MASON, GRANDFATHER OF ROBERT EMMETT.—John Mason of Ballymac Eligot claiming to descer.d from a common ancestor with the Masons of Masonbrook, (v. ante p. 274) md Avis dau and co-heiress of Captain Richard Loughlin, the Cromwellian grantee of Ballydowney, by Catherine dau of Robert Blennerhassett and Avice Conway. (v. 1st vol. 47.) John Mason 'and Avis Loughlin had James, Richard and Ohn who died unmd. Catherine, Barbara and Ellen. James Mason the eldest son was Sylvester O'Sullivan's foe. He md Catherine, daughter of Pierce Power of Elm Grove, a place now included in the demesne of Ballyseedy, and had, with other issue, a dau Elizabeth who md Doctor Emmett and had with a dau the grandmother of the present Viscountess Doneraile
	in 	Century.

	in 	Century.

	in 	Century.







