The Last Will and Testament of Theobald Macghee of Theobald Macgheei
9th December 1724 
City of West Lisbon Portugal
The Last Will and Testament of Theobald Macghee of Portmacghee in the Kingdom of Ireland and County of Kerry, being in my perfect senses Pleased be God, I making thisii Will in the Kingdom of Portugal in the presence of the undernamed in the City of Lisbon. Imprimusiii  I will and Bequeath what effects I have in the City of Lisbon of the Wreck of my Ship and all Thingsiv belonging to her may be exposed to the Sales at the best price by disposing first of the Hull marks Yards old Cordagev old Sails & o in order to pay for what Debts I owe here out of the first Produce vizhvi some Seamans Wages on account with Mr. James Fitzmaurice whatever it will come to, To the Seamen I owe first to Barnaby McCabe  one Moydore 2dly. To George Bensonvii one Moydoreviii. To Richard Fox a quarter Moydore, but if it appears upon Examination that there’s a small matter more due that they may be paid it. To Will Stonehorn late mate of the said Ship wrecked one moydore beside four moydores left in Mr. Thomas Hussies’ hand for him besides and account standing out with Mr. Thomas Hussey which when known and adjusted that he may be paid the full content. Itemix All the funeral Charges Physicians, Apothecarys, Internments, Attendances &ox may be also paid of this said Produce. Item I Will and Bequeath without waiting for the Assistance or Aid of any other Executer that may be named here that Mr. George Mead Mr. Henry Mouragh and John Fitzmaurice may enter forthwith upon the Sale and Disposal of the Hull of the Ship in order to pay the aforesaid Debts referring last unsold the running and standing Riggings of my Ship, the three Cables and three Anchors till there is a deficiency of money to pay the Debts forementioned otherwise and that the old Iron Works which are in Corpo Santoxi may be among the last Revenue. Item I Will and Bequeath that my eldest Son David Macghee living in the Island of Palmaxii may call himself according to his  own Conscience to an account how much of my Effects remains in his harbour to be accompanied towards for towards payment of my debts or making some provision for my two younger Sons not intending hereby that he should scrutinise too much upon himself but that he may consider the state of his younger Brothers. Item I will and Bequeath that Mr. John Stonexiii Vice Consul of the Island of St. Georges in the Azores may call himself to an Account for the Planks, Dealsxiv, Beams, wearing Cloathsxv and other Goods which I left in his hands to be disposed of to my best advantage and remit the produce of them to Mr. George Mead Mouragh and Fitzmaurice of the City of West Lisbon. Item I Will and Bequeath that my Farm in Stradballyxvi in Lettrain in the County of Kerry in the Kingdom of Ireland, as also my farm of Knock Kieragh in the Barony of Dughallaxvii in the County of Cork in Ireland shall be both sold to the best advantage in order to pay my Debts in Ireland and where that proves deficient towards paying the said Debts I Will and Bequeath that my stock of Cowes, Sheep and horses may also be sold to make good this said Deficiencies. Item I Will and Bequeath that where the above Sale is deficient towards paying my Debts that the Farm of Valencia may also be sold to the like Purpose. Item I Will and Bequeath that my well beloved Wife Bridget Macghee alsxviii Crosby, Sir Maurice Crosby Knight, Parson Francis Lauderxix and Mr. Philip Morgan shall be my Executors in Ireland to see the due execution of this my last Will and Testam’txx according to my true intent and meaning at ye time of making this. I will I also will and bequeath that the above named Executors when they have calculated what Debts and Credits are due may have a discretionary power to manage act and doe what they shall see equitable and just in their consciences in making what Provision they can for my two younger Sons viz George and Toby Macgheexxi taking care that they may not be altered from the religion in which I brought them up from their minority and what may be wanting to my two Daughters for their relief or necessity. Item. I Will and Bequeath that my Body may be interred in the Irish Dominican Collegexxii where I order the high Mass and the Office of the Dead may be sung for my Soul as likewise Twenty private Masses for the same day of 150 Reasxxiii to Masses Charity besides an hundred Masses afterwards for the said College at an 120 Reas Charity to Masses. Given under my hand at West Lisbon this 9th day of December 1724. Theobald Macghee. Witnesses Present. Dominic Ffrenchxxiv – James Heffernan – Michael Malone – Sam Fitzmaurice – Angel Fitzmaurice – Bernard Higgins.
2
i This is the spelling used by Theobald Macghee and his families in Tyrone and Kerry during his lifetime. Likewise the way in which he spelt Portmacghee. Note also that Portmaghee existed as a town name in Theobald’s lifetime.
ii A Yard is a wooden Spar hanging off a mast and used to carry a sail.
iii Imprimus was a word used to denote the first and most important of a series or list of clauses or instructions. Subsequent clauses were prefaced by Item.
iv Note the use of Capitals for the first letter in nouns and verbs in the 1700s. Likewise the lack of consistent punctuation. I have added some modern punctuation and formatting to make the transcript easier to read.
v Cordage is an old word for ropes used to control sails.
vi Viz or Vizh means namely.
vii Note spelling of Benson as Benfon. Our modern S was used in the 1700s in the beginning or end of a word. F without the cross bar was used for s in the middle of a word. Hence Benfon.
viii Moidores or moydores were historically gold coins of Portuguese origin. While it shows a face value of 4,000 réis, its real value was 20% higher or 4,800 réis from 1688 to 1800. One Moydore in 1720 was the equivalent of €180 today. On its obverse is the face value and the Portuguese coat of arms, and on its reverse is the Order of Christ Cross. They were minted from 1677 to as late as 1910, mainly in the Kingdom of Portugal and in Portuguese colonies like Brazil and Mozambique. Gold coins were also issued in fractions or multiples of moidores, ranging from one-tenth of a moidore to five moidores.
ix Item prefaces all new and additional clauses. See Note i
x This seems to be a way of say and others or etc.
xi Corpo Santo was / still is? a large church in Lisbon associated with and in proximity to the Irish College and the waterfront
xii Palma is where they still celebrate the clockface sundial which Theobald Macghee from Ireland commissioned for the local church.
xiii A father William Stone from the Azores but of Irish Descent, son of a James Stone was ordained in the Irish College Lisbon in 1716. There was also a Father James Macghee in this college at around the same time. Younger brother of Theobald? If so, possibly the James Macghee that also is recorded as an Ensign or Lieutenant in the Army of King Kames in 1690.
xiv A deal is a wooden board or plank, usually between 12 or 14 feet in length, traded as a commodity in shipbuilding.
xv Wearing Cloaths would appear to mean clothing, or apparel . It seems that Theobald Macghee was also dealing in fashion.
xvi Stradbally still exists in Kerry near Castlegregory. It is also quite near Ardfert where Bridget Macghee was born and where Bridget Junior lived with her husband Rev Francis Lauder.
xvii North of Kanturk.
xviii Alias or Nee.
xix Married to Bridget Macghee Junior. Husband and wife feature in the scandal of the missing Danish Gold in Ardfert a few years later.
xx This is the way that Testament is spelt throughout the original document.
xxi Mentioned in the Catholic to Protestant Convert Rolls around 1727 after this will was proven as having converted.
xxii Unfortunately, the original college run by the Dominicans and also the Jesuits was destroyed in the great Lisbon Earthquake of 1755. Over 90,000 people or one third of Lisbon’s population were killed. In a stoke of luck the Royal family decided on a whim of one of their daughters to picnic that day in the hills and so escaped the disaster. However, for the next year the king refused to live in a brick and mortar build and insisted that the entire Royal Court was reconstituted in a tented village. Within a year all the rubble was cleared, and a new city was designed with broad boulevards and open squares.
xxiii The real (meaning "royal", plural: réis or [archaic] reais) was the currency unit of Portugal from around 1430 until 1911, when the First Portuguese Republic introduced the escudo following the 1910 Republican Revolution. Since the Portuguese empire (1415-1999) spread throughout a vast number of territories that are now part of 53 different sovereign states, moidores served as currency not only in those regions but also in other regions of the globe, including Western Europe and the West Indies. 150 Reas in 1700 (what Theobald Macghee left in his will for 20 private masses was the equivalent to €6.75 today.

xxiv A father Dominic Ffrench originally from Ireland was a serving priest in the Irish College in 1724.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

